

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 0 =====

[Music] hello I'm Laura lemon tree and today I'm going to take you through a yoga flow that you can do sitting and lying down on the floor please be careful when you get down onto the floor and up again after the class you don't need a yoga mat just make sure you're feeling comfortable you'll need enough space to lie down with your arms stretched out or by the sides I'll be using a yoga strap for some of the poses but a scarf or a towel can work just as well but one of the moves I'll be using my folded jumper to support my lower back you might want to have one nearby for another move I'll be using some yoga blocks but books can do the trick just as well the video is one of a series that I've made with the MS Society as part of MS active together it's all about helping everyone with MS to be as active as we can if you haven't watched it already please watch my short introduction to the classes and make sure you're comfortable and safe before you start so we're going to start by getting in a comfortable position with our legs extended so just wiggle our bun we want our feet to be flexed up and we need to consider that you might have a foot drop I have mine on my right foot so we need to turn our feet around so they're fully straight and extend it and then first of all going to be checking in with ourselves so checking in with our heels our knees or hips chest and our crown of our head so legs are close together I'm going to start by warming up our shoulders feeling the gap between our head and our neck extending up and then we'll roll back the other way and then we're gently looking to the right and then gently coming back and just gently looking to the left so now we're going to start with our routine so start with we're gonna breathe in and look up with extending our fingers pushing our sit bones on the floor breathing in holding and breathing out into a forward bend so coming back to a rest position and then we'll do that again so when we are extending our arms we're thinking about pulling our finger you know middle finger right up and then we're pulling our shoulders down so we're getting a really good extension they're really feeling the stretch so breathing in and then breathing out as we go down to a forward bend so when we're thinking about forward bend we need to make sure that we're not curving our back too much so we're not trying as much as we can to touch our toes we want to be extending from the hips and then coming back down to it almost lifting our hips up and then extending down it doesn't matter if you don't touch your feet it's just go as far as that you need to go and actually you can use your strap if you feel a bit more comfortable with that sometimes I I do that so I'm keeping your legs a little bit further apart and then gently breathing in so we're reaching up and then forward bending down you should be able to tell if you are fully extended and that you're we're checking in with our back so the next position we're going to take our right foot over our left leg try and keep the palm of your foot down as much as possible and come in as much as possible as well to the inside of your leg this left foot is always flexed and then we're going to extend our spine up and then gently turning around to a spinal twist try and get your fingers as close as you can to your spine so breathing in here and as you're breathing out you're just looking over the corner of your show a little bit more and then coming back slowly into a neutral position don't forget to keep yourself hydrated throughout the class if you need to take a break at any time then just do that so extending the other leg so check in with your legs again and make sure that your feet are extended so we'll take a left foot over our right leg and then we're breathing in extending I fling up the shoulders and then gently coming back over looking over my shoulder so we want to take a couple of deep breaths in here so never hold your breath always breathe through the stretch checking with the toes up there flex will take a deep breath in and then see if you can look over a little bit further opening up the shoulder before you come back down gently coming out on the spinal stretch and then wiccaning the feet and then come back to a neutral position so now the next position that we're going back into the forward bend taking some deep breaths in here and breathing out and then this time we're going to curl up suit look at your tummy button and your curling up as you're reaching up slowly to a seated position so a good way of checking that you're in a good position on your sit bones is just lift them up and then as you place them down you can feel them really nestled in there and we're taking our left leg coming to the inside of our leg keeping our feet flexed reaching up and then heading down towards our big toe if you need to grab a scarf or a tea towel to use a strap loop it round your right foot hold on to it with both hands then with this make sure that our shoulders are relaxed and your back isn't arching forwards bend at the hips it's not about how far you can reach forward gently come back up and we'll do it on the other side so we put the soles of our right foot against the inside of our left leg reaching up breathing in shoulders are coming down and then the forward bending over our big toe and then looking down like I said taking the foot and we're taking it on the ball of our foot not the heel flexing the feet in and you should really feel like you're sitting down on your buttocks so take a couple of deep breaths in here relaxing the stomach and never feel like you're stretching and tensing just relax and breathe out breathes out through the stretch and then just rolling up gently up to a seated position so now we're going to go into our lying down part of our routine so if you just want to get yourself comfortable give yourself a wiggle move your legs side to side maybe your knees and your hips just how you feel comfortable maybe give them a bit of a and wiggle and so first of all we're gonna start with extending our legs so this is perfect for taking your belt or scarf we loop it around our right foot around the ball of effort not the heel hold your strap in both hands and flex your feet our other leg stays on the floor relax the shoulders and keep your hips and your head on the floor take your right leg up as far as you feel comfortable and make sure your big toe is stretching out breathe while we hold the pose and slowly lower your right leg then we do the same with the left leg we loop it around our left foot around the ball of our foots not the heel bring your left knee towards your chest and straighten your leg push your heel towards the ceiling the other leg stays on the floor and relax the shoulders keep your hips and your head on the floor take your leg up as far as feels comfortable and make sure your big toe is stretching out breathe as you hold the pose slowly lower your leg to the floor next we'll go into our bridge pose so we're going to check in with our bodies again so we're heel toe to the mat with our legs firmly placed on the mat legs are hip width distance apart and palms are facing down so we can grab a jumper if we need to with the small of our back having a slight bit of padding whichever you feel comfortable if you want to go extended you're pulling your stomach up a little bit and pushing your fingers flat on the mat and making sure that our legs are in so we're pushing down on our big toe and then if we want an extension a bit more then we can have our hands clasp together interlace the fingers rise up even further with your stomach and your hips with this extra stretch your back will arch very gently come back down move your hands from under you as you do hug your knees to your chest rocking left to right massaging the lower back you can do this in circles or you can go up and down just however you're feeling and stretch and then cross it like save the other way full stretch and benefits and now we're going into a spinal twist I use a block when I do this so I don't strain myself we bring our right knee up towards our chest and take a deep breath in slowly lower the right knee towards the floor on your left and rotate your head to look the other way look at your right hand put the block under your knee if it helps to support it breathe and then come back to the middle and we'll do it the other way bring your left knee up towards the chest then slowly lower the knee towards the floor on your right use the block if you need it and rotate your head to look the other way so that you're looking at your left hand breathe then come back to the middle shavasana is our last pose which is our resting pose so we're taking both legs straight out they're relaxed and open shoulders are open and our palms are facing upwards and our eyes are gently closed I'm gonna breathing deeply in through the nose and through the nose time and again just checking into your body thinking about the touch points on the mat say your feet the arms your head and give yourself thanks for the practice and have a good rest of the day namaste you can find all the videos online at MS Society org UK /ms active together

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 1 =====

Kind: captions Language: en Let's go. What's happening? First, let me extend a very warm welcome First, let me extend a very warm welcome First, let me extend a very warm welcome to all of you here today to celebrate to all of you here today to celebrate to all of you here today to celebrate the first international yoga day. the first international yoga day. the first international yoga day. As many of you know, As many of you know, As many of you know, the general assembly of the United the general assembly of the United the general assembly of the United Nations Nations Nations la late last year announced that 21st la late last year announced that 21st la late last year announced that 21st June each year would be this would be June each year would be this would be June each year would be this would be the international day of yoga the international day of yoga the international day of yoga and this year 2015 and this year 2015 and this year 2015 is the first international day of yoga is the first international day of yoga is the first international day of yoga which is being celebrated across the which is being celebrated across the which is being celebrated across the globe in many many countries. countries. globe in many many countries. countries. globe in many many countries. countries. Last year at the United Nations Last year at the United Nations Last year at the United Nations out of a total membership of 193 out of a total membership of 193 out of a total membership of 193 countries, countries, countries, 177 of them co-sponsored the resolution 177 of them co-sponsored the resolution 177 of them co-sponsored the resolution that 21st January each year should be that 21st January each year should be that 21st January each year should be international day of yoga. What this international day of yoga. What this international day of yoga. What this shows is how wide shows is how wide shows is how wide yoga has spread across the world and how yoga has spread across the world and how yoga has spread across the world and how people in different countries are people in different countries are people in different countries are benefiting from doing yoga. benefiting from doing yoga. benefiting from doing yoga. Here in Timu, of course, we have been Here in Timu, of course, we have been Here in Timu, of course, we have been able to organize this function this able to organize this function this able to organize this function this morning. There are roughly 500 of us morning. There are roughly 500 of us morning. There are roughly 500 of us here in this hall, the multi-purpose here in this hall, the multi-purpose here in this hall, the multi-purpose hall of the Royal Institute of hall of the Royal Institute of hall of the Royal Institute of Management. Management. Management. And all of us are going to be doing a And all of us are going to be doing a And all of us are going to be doing a series of yoga postures, yoga as they series of yoga postures, yoga as they series of yoga postures, yoga as they are called are called are called in the coming few minutes. in the coming few minutes. in the coming few minutes. Let me at the outset thank all of you Let me at the outset thank all of you Let me at the outset thank all of you for being with us today. for being with us today. for being with us today. We know that you've had to spend a lot We know that you've had to spend a lot We know that you've had to spend a lot of time in practicing for today's mega of time in practicing for today's mega of time in practicing for today's mega yoga session. We know that you have had yoga session. We know that you have had yoga session. We know that you have had to find time from your busy schedules to find time from your busy schedules to find time from your busy schedules for this. We know that some of the for this. We know that some of the for this. We know that some of the younger students from schools and younger students from schools and younger students from schools and colleges have even had examination colleges have even had examination colleges have even had examination schedules. schedules. schedules. But despite all of that, the fact that But despite all of that, the fact that But despite all of that, the fact that we are here today together we are here today together we are here today together is a very very good omen and is a very is a very very good omen and is a very is a very very good omen and is a very good way to kick off International Yoga good way to kick off International Yoga good way to kick off International Yoga Day here in Thimu. We have already had We have already had We have already had yoga day being celebrated in certain yoga day being celebrated in certain yoga day being celebrated in certain parts of the world where daylight breaks parts of the world where daylight breaks parts of the world where daylight breaks earlier earlier earlier but we are one of the only few uh but we are one of the only few uh but we are one of the only few uh countries which are going to be countries which are going to be countries which are going to be celebrating international yoga day celebrating international yoga day celebrating international yoga day today. It is my dream and my wish, my It is my dream and my wish, my It is my dream and my wish, my aspiration aspiration aspiration that by the time we reach the second that by the time we reach the second that by the time we reach the second international yoga day next year in June international yoga day next year in June international yoga day next year in June 21st of June 2016, 21st of June 2016, 21st of June 2016, we will be doing it not here in the we will be doing it not here in the we will be doing it not here in the multi-purpose hall of the Royal multi-purpose hall of the Royal multi-purpose hall of the Royal Institute of Management Institute of Management Institute of Management but in Chungla Mitang Stadium. but in Chungla Mitang Stadium. but in Chungla Mitang Stadium. And it is my dream that we will not have And it is my dream that we will not have And it is my dream that we will not have just 500 doing yoga together, but that just 500 doing yoga together, but that just 500 doing yoga together, but that next year we'll be 5,000. next year we'll be 5,000. next year we'll be 5,000. So let me welcome one all of you once So let me welcome one all of you once So let me welcome one all of you once again to this celebration of the first again to this celebration of the first again to this celebration of the first international day of yoga here in Thimu. international day of yoga here in Thimu. international day of yoga here in Thimu. We are very lucky and fortunate that We are very lucky and fortunate that We are very lucky and fortunate that Lynch Sering and many of his cabinet Lynch Sering and many of his cabinet Lynch Sering and many of his cabinet ministers are with us here today. ministers are with us here today. ministers are with us here today. Without further ado, let me request Without further ado, let me request Without further ado, let me request Lynchin to address us all. After which Lynchin to address us all. After which Lynchin to address us all. After which we will of course play the message from we will of course play the message from we will of course play the message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India and then we will go into a yoga session. and then we will go into a yoga session. and then we will go into a yoga session. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, excellency Thank you very much, excellency Thank you very much, excellency ambassador Mamoali, ambassador Mamoali, ambassador Mamoali, Excellency Excellency Excellency Limpose, Limpose, Limpose, friends, ladies and gentlemen. friends, ladies and gentlemen. friends, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the royal government, I On behalf of the royal government, I On behalf of the royal government, I want to congratulate want to congratulate want to congratulate India for India for India for bringing the world together bringing the world together bringing the world together under the banner of yoga. Yoga is about balance. Bringing balance Yoga is about balance. Bringing balance Yoga is about balance. Bringing balance to the mind, the spirituality and the to the mind, the spirituality and the to the mind, the spirituality and the body. body. body. Yoga, Yoga, Yoga, a philosophy that has spread all over a philosophy that has spread all over a philosophy that has spread all over the world, the world, the world, is now in a unique position is now in a unique position is now in a unique position to unite the whole world, to bring peace to unite the whole world, to bring peace to unite the whole world, to bring peace and to bring balance, and to bring balance, and to bring balance, much needed balance between much needed balance between much needed balance between human beings human beings human beings and our mother earth. and our mother earth. and our mother earth. I congratulate Prime Minister Narendra I congratulate Prime Minister Narendra I congratulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government and the people Modi and the government and the people Modi and the government and the people of India of India of India for your leadership for your leadership for your leadership in getting in getting in getting recognition recognition recognition for what yoga can do for what yoga can do for what yoga can do for us as individuals, for us as for us as individuals, for us as for us as individuals, for us as societies and for us as the world. societies and for us as the world. societies and for us as the world. Yoga Yoga Yoga is one of many is one of many is one of many areas where Bhutan and India areas where Bhutan and India areas where Bhutan and India share common bonds of friendship. share common bonds of friendship. share common bonds of friendship. In Bhutan In Bhutan In Bhutan we have had countless yogis we have had countless yogis we have had countless yogis njopas practicing yoga in our mountains. njopas practicing yoga in our mountains. njopas practicing yoga in our mountains. Today Today Today we have many bhinesis we have many bhinesis we have many bhinesis who practice yoga. who practice yoga. who practice yoga. They get up in the morning to surya They get up in the morning to surya They get up in the morning to surya namaskar namaskar namaskar or their pranayam without which the day or their pranayam without which the day or their pranayam without which the day is not complete. is not complete. is not complete. So today's event So today's event So today's event is as much Bhutanese as it is Indian is as much Bhutanese as it is Indian is as much Bhutanese as it is Indian and it is a celebration of Indobhutan and it is a celebration of Indobhutan and it is a celebration of Indobhutan friendship as it is a celebration of friendship as it is a celebration of friendship as it is a celebration of world peace world peace world peace for Bhutan yoga can play an important role yoga can play an important role yoga can play an important role the spread of non-communicable diseases the spread of non-communicable diseases the spread of non-communicable diseases in Bhutan in Bhutan in Bhutan diabetes hypertension and the like diabetes hypertension and the like diabetes hypertension and the like is not acceptable. is not acceptable. is not acceptable. These are rich people's diseases These are rich people's diseases These are rich people's diseases inflicting a poor country inflicting a poor country inflicting a poor country and we must fight non-communicable and we must fight non-communicable and we must fight non-communicable diseases. The only way to fight non-communicable The only way to fight non-communicable The only way to fight non-communicable diseases is through lifestyle changes. diseases is through lifestyle changes. diseases is through lifestyle changes. adopting healthy lifestyles adopting healthy lifestyles adopting healthy lifestyles including exercise. Yoga Yoga Yoga is one such exercise is one such exercise is one such exercise that is important for us to improve our that is important for us to improve our that is important for us to improve our livelihoods, to improve livelihoods, to improve livelihoods, to improve our own our own our own health, but to bring balance also among our own mental state, our among our own mental state, our among our own mental state, our spiritual state and our physical state. spiritual state and our physical state. spiritual state and our physical state. What better definition for G&amp; than that? I am new to yoga. This will be one of my first few This will be one of my first few This will be one of my first few attempts and this I understand and this I understand and this I understand is the very purpose of international is the very purpose of international is the very purpose of international yoga day. yoga day. yoga day. It is not It is not It is not for the experts for the experts for the experts because they themselves have been because they themselves have been because they themselves have been practicing yoga all along. and reaping practicing yoga all along. and reaping practicing yoga all along. and reaping its many benefits. its many benefits. its many benefits. It is for the new, it is for the It is for the new, it is for the It is for the new, it is for the uninitiated, it is for me uninitiated, it is for me uninitiated, it is for me to try a hand to try a hand to try a hand at this at this at this timeested timeested timeested philosophy and exercise philosophy and exercise philosophy and exercise to taste it to taste it to taste it and then to practice it. India well especially in Delhi India well especially in Delhi India well especially in Delhi day breaks a little later than in Timu day breaks a little later than in Timu day breaks a little later than in Timu but I understand 47,000 people including but I understand 47,000 people including but I understand 47,000 people including Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Rajpat Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Rajpat Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Rajpat have already finished the yoga session a have already finished the yoga session a have already finished the yoga session a few hours ago we are beginning ours few hours ago we are beginning ours few hours ago we are beginning ours and I'm thrilled to be here and I'm thrilled to be here and I'm thrilled to be here I want to thank the Indian embassy and I want to thank the Indian embassy and I want to thank the Indian embassy and the Nu Wongjuk the Nu Wongjuk the Nu Wongjuk center for organizing center for organizing center for organizing such a large gathering of such a large gathering of such a large gathering of yoga practitioners on a per capita yoga practitioners on a per capita yoga practitioners on a per capita basis. It's much larger than what was basis. It's much larger than what was basis. It's much larger than what was gathered anywhere in India today. Thank gathered anywhere in India today. Thank gathered anywhere in India today. Thank you very much. Anti [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] 177 countries 177 countries 177 countries co-sponsor Vishi Unlike [Music] [Music] Reward [Music] Juna. yogurt. [Music] [Music] [Music] forin [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Mr. foreign. [Music] [Music] fortish. Santi [Music] [Music] Foreign [Music] Preventive Preventive Preventive Health. Health. Health. [Music] [Music] [Music] He saychech. [Music] Mary Mary Mary yoga. [Applause] Good morning all. Welcome to the mass Good morning all. Welcome to the mass Good morning all. Welcome to the mass program on international yoga day 2015. Let's sit in a comfortable posture Let's sit in a comfortable posture Let's sit in a comfortable posture either cross legs or in patmasana the either cross legs or in patmasana the either cross legs or in patmasana the lotus posture. Please keep your spine lotus posture. Please keep your spine lotus posture. Please keep your spine straight, your face looking forward, straight, your face looking forward, straight, your face looking forward, your hands on your knees with adopted your hands on your knees with adopted your hands on your knees with adopted mudra. Let's start with omara and the mudra. Let's start with omara and the mudra. Let's start with omara and the prayer. [Music] Oh, Oh, Oh, [Music] the child. the child. the child. [Music] Some [Music] [Music] [Music] way way way [Music] [Music] [Music] pass pass pass Sanjana Sanjana Sanjana pass [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Now let's go for prana. Now let's go for prana. Now let's go for prana. Slowly take your hands back. Catch all Slowly take your hands back. Catch all Slowly take your hands back. Catch all of your right toes with your left hand. of your right toes with your left hand. of your right toes with your left hand. Bend down. Breathing out. Try to touch Bend down. Breathing out. Try to touch Bend down. Breathing out. Try to touch your forehead to the ground. Submit your forehead to the ground. Submit your forehead to the ground. Submit ourself to the mother nature. And slowly ourself to the mother nature. And slowly ourself to the mother nature. And slowly come up. Breathing in to the normal come up. Breathing in to the normal come up. Breathing in to the normal posture. posture. posture. Now let's come for the standing series Now let's come for the standing series Now let's come for the standing series of postures. Please stand up. Keep your of postures. Please stand up. Keep your of postures. Please stand up. Keep your legs together. Hands by the side of your legs together. Hands by the side of your legs together. Hands by the side of your hip. hip. hip. Keep your shoulder relaxed totally Keep your shoulder relaxed totally Keep your shoulder relaxed totally your neck relaxed. your neck relaxed. your neck relaxed. Now we'll be going for the neck Now we'll be going for the neck Now we'll be going for the neck exercise. exercise. exercise. Forward and backward pinning of the Forward and backward pinning of the Forward and backward pinning of the neck. neck. neck. Slowly breathe in and bend your neck Slowly breathe in and bend your neck Slowly breathe in and bend your neck back. See the ceiling. Slowly breathe out and come down. So Slowly breathe out and come down. So Slowly breathe out and come down. So that you'll be trying to touch your chin that you'll be trying to touch your chin that you'll be trying to touch your chin to the chestbone. Slowly breathe in and come up. Let's Slowly breathe in and come up. Let's Slowly breathe in and come up. Let's repeat it once again. repeat it once again. repeat it once again. Total backward bending. Breathe out and Total backward bending. Breathe out and Total backward bending. Breathe out and come down. come down. come down. Breathe in and come up to normal Breathe in and come up to normal Breathe in and come up to normal posture. posture. posture. [Music] Now let's go for the sideward bending. Now let's go for the sideward bending. Now let's go for the sideward bending. Breathe out and bend towards your right Breathe out and bend towards your right Breathe out and bend towards your right side so that you'll be trying to touch side so that you'll be trying to touch side so that you'll be trying to touch your earlo to the shoulder. your earlo to the shoulder. your earlo to the shoulder. Breathe in and come up. Breathe in and come up. Breathe in and come up. Breathe out and do the same towards your Breathe out and do the same towards your Breathe out and do the same towards your left side. Breathe in and come up. Breathe in and come up. Breathe in and come up. [Music] [Music] [Music] Let's repeat once again towards the Let's repeat once again towards the Let's repeat once again towards the right. Breathe in and come to normal. Again to the left. Breathe out. Breathe in and come to the normal Breathe in and come to the normal Breathe in and come to the normal posture. Now let's go for the neck twisting Now let's go for the neck twisting Now let's go for the neck twisting exercise. exercise. exercise. Here we are turning the neck to the Here we are turning the neck to the Here we are turning the neck to the sides. sides. sides. Slowly breathe out and turn your neck to Slowly breathe out and turn your neck to Slowly breathe out and turn your neck to the right side and try to touch the chin the right side and try to touch the chin the right side and try to touch the chin to the shoulder. to the shoulder. to the shoulder. Slowly come back. Slowly come back. Slowly come back. Repeat the same towards the left side. Repeat the same towards the left side. Repeat the same towards the left side. Breathing out. Breathing out. Breathing out. [Music] Breathe in and come back. Breathe in and come back. Breathe in and come back. Repeat the same once more. Breathe out. Breathe in and come back Breathe in and come back Breathe in and come back to the normal posture to the normal posture to the normal posture again towards the left. Come back to normal. Breathing in. Come back to normal. Breathing in. Come back to normal. Breathing in. Relax yourself. Relax yourself. Relax yourself. Now let's go for the proper asas. Now let's go for the proper asas. Now let's go for the proper asas. Katy chalana asana. Katy chalana asana. Katy chalana asana. Slowly keep your legs a bit apart. Slowly keep your legs a bit apart. Slowly keep your legs a bit apart. Breathe in and take your hands up to the Breathe in and take your hands up to the Breathe in and take your hands up to the level of the shoulder. level of the shoulder. level of the shoulder. Slowly breathe out and twist towards Slowly breathe out and twist towards Slowly breathe out and twist towards your right side. The same time you'll be your right side. The same time you'll be your right side. The same time you'll be trying to touch the left hand to the trying to touch the left hand to the trying to touch the left hand to the right shoulder. right shoulder. right shoulder. Maintain the normal breathing. Maintain the normal breathing. Maintain the normal breathing. Slowly come back. Breathing in. Slowly come back. Breathing in. Slowly come back. Breathing in. [Music] [Music] [Music] Breathe out and turn towards the left Breathe out and turn towards the left Breathe out and turn towards the left side. side. side. [Music] [Music] [Music] Twist your spine completely. Twist your spine completely. Twist your spine completely. Remain with normal breathing there. Remain with normal breathing there. Remain with normal breathing there. Slowly come back. Breathing in. Breathe out and keep your hands down. Breathe out and keep your hands down. Breathe out and keep your hands down. Keep your legs together. Keep your legs together. Keep your legs together. Now let's go for the complete stretch of Now let's go for the complete stretch of Now let's go for the complete stretch of the spine called tadasana. the spine called tadasana. the spine called tadasana. Tada means the palm tree. Keeping your Tada means the palm tree. Keeping your Tada means the palm tree. Keeping your foot together, we breathe in and take foot together, we breathe in and take foot together, we breathe in and take our hands up as well. We are going on our hands up as well. We are going on our hands up as well. We are going on our toes. Stretching the whole body up. our toes. Stretching the whole body up. our toes. Stretching the whole body up. Reminded with normal breathing Reminded with normal breathing Reminded with normal breathing and slowly breathe out and take your and slowly breathe out and take your and slowly breathe out and take your hands down as well as your foot down to hands down as well as your foot down to hands down as well as your foot down to the ground. [Music] [Music] [Music] Now let's go for a forward bending path Now let's go for a forward bending path Now let's go for a forward bending path hastasana where the foot and hands come hastasana where the foot and hands come hastasana where the foot and hands come together. together. together. Standing in right posture with foot Standing in right posture with foot Standing in right posture with foot together. We breathe in and take our together. We breathe in and take our together. We breathe in and take our hands up. Stretch the whole spine out. hands up. Stretch the whole spine out. hands up. Stretch the whole spine out. Feel the stretch of the spine. The same Feel the stretch of the spine. The same Feel the stretch of the spine. The same stretch is maintained. Breathe out and stretch is maintained. Breathe out and stretch is maintained. Breathe out and bend down from your lower back to mid bend down from your lower back to mid bend down from your lower back to mid back and upper back. back and upper back. back and upper back. Your hands near your foot. Maintain with Your hands near your foot. Maintain with Your hands near your foot. Maintain with normal breathing. Breathe in and slowly come up the upper Breathe in and slowly come up the upper Breathe in and slowly come up the upper back, the mid back and lower back. Once back, the mid back and lower back. Once back, the mid back and lower back. Once again, stretch the whole spine up. again, stretch the whole spine up. again, stretch the whole spine up. Breathe out and slowly take your hands Breathe out and slowly take your hands Breathe out and slowly take your hands down. down. down. Now let's go for the complimentary Now let's go for the complimentary Now let's go for the complimentary posture. The backward bending at kati posture. The backward bending at kati posture. The backward bending at kati chakrasana. chakrasana. chakrasana. Keep your hands with fingers together Keep your hands with fingers together Keep your hands with fingers together just beneath the waist area facing the just beneath the waist area facing the just beneath the waist area facing the fingers forward. Have a firm grip there. fingers forward. Have a firm grip there. fingers forward. Have a firm grip there. Push your hip forward and bend back. Push your hip forward and bend back. Push your hip forward and bend back. Breathing in. Breathing in. Breathing in. Maintain with normal breathing. Maintain with normal breathing. Maintain with normal breathing. Slowly breathe in and come up. Breathe out and slide your hands down. Breathe out and slide your hands down. Breathe out and slide your hands down. Now let's go for the triangular posture. Now let's go for the triangular posture. Now let's go for the triangular posture. Trionasana. Trionasana. Trionasana. Triona means triangle. Slowly keep your Triona means triangle. Slowly keep your Triona means triangle. Slowly keep your legs apart. Breathe in and take your legs apart. Breathe in and take your legs apart. Breathe in and take your hands at the level of the shoulder. hands at the level of the shoulder. hands at the level of the shoulder. Breathe out and bend towards your right Breathe out and bend towards your right Breathe out and bend towards your right side. At the same time you'll be turning side. At the same time you'll be turning side. At the same time you'll be turning your head up seeing the left hand which your head up seeing the left hand which your head up seeing the left hand which is vertically up. Maintain with normal is vertically up. Maintain with normal is vertically up. Maintain with normal posture. posture. posture. Slowly come up. Breathing in. Repeat the same towards your left side. Repeat the same towards your left side. Repeat the same towards your left side. You'll be seeing your right hand You'll be seeing your right hand You'll be seeing your right hand vertically placed upwards. Slowly come up. Breathing in. Breathe out. And keep your hands down. Breathe out. And keep your hands down. Breathe out. And keep your hands down. Keep your legs together. Now we'll be going for utktatasana, the Now we'll be going for utktatasana, the Now we'll be going for utktatasana, the halfway sitting posture. halfway sitting posture. halfway sitting posture. Keep your foot together. Rise up on your Keep your foot together. Rise up on your Keep your foot together. Rise up on your toes as well. Your hands lifted towards toes as well. Your hands lifted towards toes as well. Your hands lifted towards the level of your shoulder. the level of your shoulder. the level of your shoulder. Slowly breathe out and come down till Slowly breathe out and come down till Slowly breathe out and come down till your thighs becomes parallel to the your thighs becomes parallel to the your thighs becomes parallel to the ground. Stay back with normal breathing. ground. Stay back with normal breathing. ground. Stay back with normal breathing. Slowly breathe in and raise yourself up Slowly breathe in and raise yourself up Slowly breathe in and raise yourself up on your toes again. Breathe out and keep your hands as well Breathe out and keep your hands as well Breathe out and keep your hands as well as the foot down on the ground. Now as the foot down on the ground. Now as the foot down on the ground. Now we'll be going for we'll be going for we'll be going for prasana, the balancing posture. Pricksha prasana, the balancing posture. Pricksha prasana, the balancing posture. Pricksha means the tree. Slowly drag your right means the tree. Slowly drag your right means the tree. Slowly drag your right foot towards the groin area of your left foot towards the groin area of your left foot towards the groin area of your left thigh. Keep it firmly there. Slowly thigh. Keep it firmly there. Slowly thigh. Keep it firmly there. Slowly breathe in and take your hands up at the breathe in and take your hands up at the breathe in and take your hands up at the shoulder level. Turn the palm up again. shoulder level. Turn the palm up again. shoulder level. Turn the palm up again. Continue the breathing as well as the Continue the breathing as well as the Continue the breathing as well as the hand movement. Stretch your hands up. hand movement. Stretch your hands up. hand movement. Stretch your hands up. Maintain with normal breathing. Maintain with normal breathing. Maintain with normal breathing. Slowly take your hands down. Breathing Slowly take your hands down. Breathing Slowly take your hands down. Breathing out. Release the leg. Let's do the same out. Release the leg. Let's do the same out. Release the leg. Let's do the same with other side. Take your left foot and with other side. Take your left foot and with other side. Take your left foot and keep it towards the inner thigh of the keep it towards the inner thigh of the keep it towards the inner thigh of the right. Take your hands up. Breathing in. right. Take your hands up. Breathing in. right. Take your hands up. Breathing in. Maintain the normal breathing. Slowly Slowly Slowly breathe out and come down. breathe out and come down. breathe out and come down. Release your legs. Now let's go for the sitting series of Now let's go for the sitting series of Now let's go for the sitting series of postures. Place it down with your leg postures. Place it down with your leg postures. Place it down with your leg extending forward. extending forward. extending forward. Hands on your thighs. Hands on your thighs. Hands on your thighs. The body straight. The body straight. The body straight. looking forward. looking forward. looking forward. Now let's go for vakarasana. The Now let's go for vakarasana. The Now let's go for vakarasana. The twisting posture. Slowly take your right twisting posture. Slowly take your right twisting posture. Slowly take your right foot. Keep it near the left knee. Place foot. Keep it near the left knee. Place foot. Keep it near the left knee. Place your right hand behind the spine on the your right hand behind the spine on the your right hand behind the spine on the ground preventing yourself from falling ground preventing yourself from falling ground preventing yourself from falling back. back. back. Take the right hand, cross it over the Take the right hand, cross it over the Take the right hand, cross it over the right knee and try to catch the right right knee and try to catch the right right knee and try to catch the right ankle joint. Now breathe out and twist ankle joint. Now breathe out and twist ankle joint. Now breathe out and twist back. back. back. Maintain with normal posture. Breathe in and come back. Release the Breathe in and come back. Release the Breathe in and come back. Release the left hand. The right hand. Extend the left hand. The right hand. Extend the left hand. The right hand. Extend the right leg forward. right leg forward. right leg forward. Let us repeat the same towards the left Let us repeat the same towards the left Let us repeat the same towards the left side. side. side. The left foot near the right knee. The The left foot near the right knee. The The left foot near the right knee. The same hand behind the right hand cross same hand behind the right hand cross same hand behind the right hand cross the left knee and catching the left the left knee and catching the left the left knee and catching the left ankle joint. Breathe out and twist back. ankle joint. Breathe out and twist back. ankle joint. Breathe out and twist back. Maintain with normal breathing. Maintain with normal breathing. Maintain with normal breathing. Slowly come back. Breathing in. [Music] [Music] [Music] Release. Let's go for the backward Release. Let's go for the backward Release. Let's go for the backward bending arda ustrasana the half camel bending arda ustrasana the half camel bending arda ustrasana the half camel posture. posture. posture. Let's stand on our knees. Let's stand on our knees. Let's stand on our knees. [Music] The body straight. Keep the fingers The body straight. Keep the fingers The body straight. Keep the fingers together and place it just beneath your together and place it just beneath your together and place it just beneath your waist area. Fingers pointing forward. waist area. Fingers pointing forward. waist area. Fingers pointing forward. Push your hip forward. Breathe in and Push your hip forward. Breathe in and Push your hip forward. Breathe in and bend back. bend back. bend back. Maintain with normal breathing. Slowly breathe in and come up. Slowly breathe in and come up. Slowly breathe in and come up. Breathe out and slide your hands down. Sit back on your heels. Breathe in and take your hands up for Breathe in and take your hands up for Breathe in and take your hands up for shashangasana. The rabbit posture. shashangasana. The rabbit posture. shashangasana. The rabbit posture. Stretch your whole body up. Stretch your whole body up. Stretch your whole body up. Breathe out and bend forward Breathe out and bend forward Breathe out and bend forward from your lower back to mid back and from your lower back to mid back and from your lower back to mid back and upper back. Try to touch your forehead to the Try to touch your forehead to the Try to touch your forehead to the ground. Placing your back on your heels. ground. Placing your back on your heels. ground. Placing your back on your heels. Maintain the normal breathing. Maintain the normal breathing. Maintain the normal breathing. Experience the stretch. Slowly breathe Experience the stretch. Slowly breathe Experience the stretch. Slowly breathe in and come up. in and come up. in and come up. Stretch your body up again. Stretch your body up again. Stretch your body up again. Breathe out. And slowly give your hands Breathe out. And slowly give your hands Breathe out. And slowly give your hands down. [Music] [Music] [Music] Now let's go for the lying down on Now let's go for the lying down on Now let's go for the lying down on abdomen series of asas. abdomen series of asas. abdomen series of asas. Lie down on your abdomen Lie down on your abdomen Lie down on your abdomen and relax in macakarasana the crocodile and relax in macakarasana the crocodile and relax in macakarasana the crocodile posture. posture. posture. Keep your legs a bit apart so that the Keep your legs a bit apart so that the Keep your legs a bit apart so that the toes pointing sidewards, toes pointing sidewards, toes pointing sidewards, your hands crossed so that your chest your hands crossed so that your chest your hands crossed so that your chest get elevated and easy for you to get elevated and easy for you to get elevated and easy for you to breathe. breathe. breathe. Keep your chin on the crossed hands. Keep your chin on the crossed hands. Keep your chin on the crossed hands. Keep your eyes closed and relax totally. [Music] We'll be going for bjangasana, the cobra We'll be going for bjangasana, the cobra We'll be going for bjangasana, the cobra posture. Keep your legs together, hands posture. Keep your legs together, hands posture. Keep your legs together, hands by the side of the body. by the side of the body. by the side of the body. Now the hands have been placed near the Now the hands have been placed near the Now the hands have been placed near the chest, the forehead on the ground. chest, the forehead on the ground. chest, the forehead on the ground. Slowly breathe in and lift your head up Slowly breathe in and lift your head up Slowly breathe in and lift your head up the chest, the abdomen till the waist the chest, the abdomen till the waist the chest, the abdomen till the waist area. area. area. Look towards the ceiling. Bend back the Look towards the ceiling. Bend back the Look towards the ceiling. Bend back the maximum. maximum. maximum. Maintain with normal breathing Maintain with normal breathing Maintain with normal breathing and slowly come down and slowly come down and slowly come down your abdomen, your abdomen, your abdomen, chest chest chest and fall to the ground again. release. Keep your hands release. Keep your hands release. Keep your hands crossed crossed crossed and again relax in makrasana with your and again relax in makrasana with your and again relax in makrasana with your legs apart. Now let's go for shalabasana the locus Now let's go for shalabasana the locus Now let's go for shalabasana the locus posture. Slowly make the fist of your posture. Slowly make the fist of your posture. Slowly make the fist of your hand with thumb inside. hand with thumb inside. hand with thumb inside. Keep it just beneath your thigh. So let Keep it just beneath your thigh. So let Keep it just beneath your thigh. So let your hip rest on your forearm. your hip rest on your forearm. your hip rest on your forearm. Breathe in and lift your legs up without Breathe in and lift your legs up without Breathe in and lift your legs up without bending the knees. bending the knees. bending the knees. Stretch it. Maintain with normal Stretch it. Maintain with normal Stretch it. Maintain with normal breathing. breathing. breathing. [Music] Slowly breathe out and bring the legs Slowly breathe out and bring the legs Slowly breathe out and bring the legs down to the ground. Release the hands Release the hands Release the hands and then relax in macarasana. And now let's go for chassangasana And now let's go for chassangasana And now let's go for chassangasana stretch. Try to sit on your heels with stretch. Try to sit on your heels with stretch. Try to sit on your heels with your forehead on the ground. Stretch your forehead on the ground. Stretch your forehead on the ground. Stretch yourself the maximum. [Music] Now breathe in and come out. Now breathe in and come out. Now breathe in and come out. Stress a total front portion of your Stress a total front portion of your Stress a total front portion of your body. body. body. Breathe out and keep your hands down. Now let's go for the supine series of Now let's go for the supine series of Now let's go for the supine series of asas. asas. asas. Lying down on your back. Slowly raise Lying down on your back. Slowly raise Lying down on your back. Slowly raise your legs forward. your legs forward. your legs forward. Lie down on your back. Lie down on your back. Lie down on your back. And let's go for the relaxation posture. And let's go for the relaxation posture. And let's go for the relaxation posture. Savasana posture. Keep your legs apart, Savasana posture. Keep your legs apart, Savasana posture. Keep your legs apart, the hands apart, palm facing the sky. the hands apart, palm facing the sky. the hands apart, palm facing the sky. Relax totally. Keep your eyes closed. Relax totally. Keep your eyes closed. Relax totally. Keep your eyes closed. Observe the body. Observe the body. Observe the body. Feel the changes which happened in your Feel the changes which happened in your Feel the changes which happened in your body. body. body. Let loose all the muscles in the body. Let loose all the muscles in the body. Let loose all the muscles in the body. Relax completely. Now let's go for the lying down on the Now let's go for the lying down on the Now let's go for the lying down on the spine series ofas. spine series ofas. spine series ofas. Let's go for power muktasana which is Let's go for power muktasana which is Let's go for power muktasana which is very good for the digestive system. Keep very good for the digestive system. Keep very good for the digestive system. Keep your legs together, hands by the side of your legs together, hands by the side of your legs together, hands by the side of the body, the body, the body, palm facing the ground. Slowly raise palm facing the ground. Slowly raise palm facing the ground. Slowly raise your legs up without bending the knees your legs up without bending the knees your legs up without bending the knees to 90°. to 90°. to 90°. Bend it at the knees. Catch hold of it. Bend it at the knees. Catch hold of it. Bend it at the knees. Catch hold of it. Take it towards the chest. Breathe out Take it towards the chest. Breathe out Take it towards the chest. Breathe out and try to touch the chin to the knees. and try to touch the chin to the knees. and try to touch the chin to the knees. Maintain with normal breathing. Slowly breathe in and keep your head Slowly breathe in and keep your head Slowly breathe in and keep your head down. Deluxe stretching up. down. Deluxe stretching up. down. Deluxe stretching up. Slowly breathe out and bring your legs Slowly breathe out and bring your legs Slowly breathe out and bring your legs down without bending the knees. Let's go for the pandasana. Say the Let's go for the pandasana. Say the Let's go for the pandasana. Say the panda means the bridge. Keeping your panda means the bridge. Keeping your panda means the bridge. Keeping your foot together. Now slowly bend your legs foot together. Now slowly bend your legs foot together. Now slowly bend your legs at the knees and bring your foot very at the knees and bring your foot very at the knees and bring your foot very close to your body. Try to catch the close to your body. Try to catch the close to your body. Try to catch the ankle joint or if you cannot keep your ankle joint or if you cannot keep your ankle joint or if you cannot keep your palm down on the ground. palm down on the ground. palm down on the ground. Breathe in and lift your hip up the Breathe in and lift your hip up the Breathe in and lift your hip up the maximum. maximum. maximum. Maintain with the normal breathing. Slowly keep your hip down. Slowly keep your hip down. Slowly keep your hip down. Release your legs. And then let's go for relaxation again. And then let's go for relaxation again. And then let's go for relaxation again. [Music] [Music] [Music] Relax in shavasana. Relax in shavasana. Relax in shavasana. Keep your legs apart, Keep your legs apart, Keep your legs apart, your hands apart, your hands apart, your hands apart, palm facing the sky. Relax completely. Now slowly come up to sitting posture. Now slowly come up to sitting posture. Now slowly come up to sitting posture. Turn to your left side very casually [Music] [Music] [Music] and with the support of your right hand and with the support of your right hand and with the support of your right hand slowly come up to sitting posture. slowly come up to sitting posture. slowly come up to sitting posture. You can again sit in a comfortable You can again sit in a comfortable You can again sit in a comfortable sitting posture sitting posture sitting posture either cross legs or patasana either cross legs or patasana either cross legs or patasana keeping your hands on the knees the keeping your hands on the knees the keeping your hands on the knees the mudra. mudra. mudra. Now let's go for the conclusion prayer. Now let's go for the conclusion prayer. Now let's go for the conclusion prayer. [Music] [Music] [Music] Oh, Oh, Oh, [Music] [Music] [Music] so so so [Music] [Music] [Music] Dabash [Music] [Music] [Music] dab. Ooh. Ooh. Ooh. Shanty. Shanty. Shanty. Shanty. Shanty. Once again, let's go for prana. Once again, let's go for prana. Once again, let's go for prana. Take your hands back. Catch all of your Take your hands back. Catch all of your Take your hands back. Catch all of your right wrist with your left hand. Bend right wrist with your left hand. Bend right wrist with your left hand. Bend down. Breathing out. Try to touch your down. Breathing out. Try to touch your down. Breathing out. Try to touch your forehead to the ground. Slowly come up. forehead to the ground. Slowly come up. forehead to the ground. Slowly come up. Breathing in. Let us go for palming. Rub your hands Let us go for palming. Rub your hands Let us go for palming. Rub your hands each other. Make it warm. each other. Make it warm. each other. Make it warm. and place it over your eyes without and place it over your eyes without and place it over your eyes without pressing the eyeballs. pressing the eyeballs. pressing the eyeballs. Feel the depth of darkness as well as Feel the depth of darkness as well as Feel the depth of darkness as well as the warmth transferring to your eyes. the warmth transferring to your eyes. the warmth transferring to your eyes. Let's repeat twice more. Let's repeat twice more. Let's repeat twice more. [Music] [Music] Pranam. Pranam. Pranam. Thank you. Have a nice day. Thank you. Have a nice day. Thank you. Have a nice day. [Applause] Your Excellency Prime Minister of Bhutan Your Excellency Prime Minister of Bhutan Your Excellency Prime Minister of Bhutan Lynch Shiring Tobi, Honorable Limos, Lynch Shiring Tobi, Honorable Limos, Lynch Shiring Tobi, Honorable Limos, Your Excellency, Ambassador of India to Your Excellency, Ambassador of India to Your Excellency, Ambassador of India to Bhutan, Shiri Gautam Bombal Gi, Bhutan, Shiri Gautam Bombal Gi, Bhutan, Shiri Gautam Bombal Gi, Commandant Imtraat, Chief Engineer Pjak Commandant Imtraat, Chief Engineer Pjak Commandant Imtraat, Chief Engineer Pjak Dantag, Officers from Royal Government Dantag, Officers from Royal Government Dantag, Officers from Royal Government of Bhutan, Imtraat of Bhutan, Imtraat of Bhutan, Imtraat Dant, Embassy of India, principals, Dant, Embassy of India, principals, Dant, Embassy of India, principals, representatives of participating representatives of participating representatives of participating schools, colleges in Thinu, schools, colleges in Thinu, schools, colleges in Thinu, distinguished yoga practitioners and distinguished yoga practitioners and distinguished yoga practitioners and students from different schools. students from different schools. students from different schools. On behalf of Embassy of India, I extend On behalf of Embassy of India, I extend On behalf of Embassy of India, I extend my sincere thanks for making this event my sincere thanks for making this event my sincere thanks for making this event a success. a success. a success. I am finding it difficult from where to I am finding it difficult from where to I am finding it difficult from where to start my vote of thanks. start my vote of thanks. start my vote of thanks. Each sport Each sport Each sport and cooperation has been crucial to the and cooperation has been crucial to the and cooperation has been crucial to the success of this event. success of this event. success of this event. Still perhaps I should begin with Still perhaps I should begin with Still perhaps I should begin with thanking honorable guests, practitioners thanking honorable guests, practitioners thanking honorable guests, practitioners and the students who have taken out and the students who have taken out and the students who have taken out their time to take part in this mega their time to take part in this mega their time to take part in this mega session. session. session. I am especially thankful to Ministry of I am especially thankful to Ministry of I am especially thankful to Ministry of Education, ThinkU education authority, Education, ThinkU education authority, Education, ThinkU education authority, principles of school, heads of colleges principles of school, heads of colleges principles of school, heads of colleges and their staff for their wholehearted and their staff for their wholehearted and their staff for their wholehearted support and encouragement to the support and encouragement to the support and encouragement to the students to take part in the yoga. Of students to take part in the yoga. Of students to take part in the yoga. Of course, my special thanks goes to young course, my special thanks goes to young course, my special thanks goes to young students students students who have been attending every yoga who have been attending every yoga who have been attending every yoga session very sincerely in their session very sincerely in their session very sincerely in their respective schools. respective schools. respective schools. I thank Dr. Saju and his team who have I thank Dr. Saju and his team who have I thank Dr. Saju and his team who have been working relentlessly been working relentlessly been working relentlessly extra hours including on weekends for extra hours including on weekends for extra hours including on weekends for taking special yoga sessions at taking special yoga sessions at taking special yoga sessions at respective schools. Lastly, on behalf of Embassy of India Lastly, on behalf of Embassy of India Lastly, on behalf of Embassy of India and my own behalf, I express my sincere and my own behalf, I express my sincere and my own behalf, I express my sincere thanks and gratitude to Dashop thanks and gratitude to Dashop thanks and gratitude to Dashop Karmasiri, Director General Royal Karmasiri, Director General Royal Karmasiri, Director General Royal Institute of Management and his team for Institute of Management and his team for Institute of Management and his team for collaborating with Embassy of India in collaborating with Embassy of India in collaborating with Embassy of India in organizing this event. Dash Karma has organizing this event. Dash Karma has organizing this event. Dash Karma has been working day and night to ensure been working day and night to ensure been working day and night to ensure that multi-purpose hall is equipped with that multi-purpose hall is equipped with that multi-purpose hall is equipped with the state-of-the-art facilities for this the state-of-the-art facilities for this the state-of-the-art facilities for this event. Once again, I thank you all for event. Once again, I thank you all for event. Once again, I thank you all for your support and cooperation and look your support and cooperation and look your support and cooperation and look forward the same support and cooperation forward the same support and cooperation forward the same support and cooperation for the next international day of yoga for the next international day of yoga for the next international day of yoga on June 21st, 2016. on June 21st, 2016. on June 21st, 2016. Thank you very much once again. Thank Thank you very much once again. Thank Thank you very much once again. Thank you. May I request May I request May I request the distinguished the distinguished the distinguished practitioners and participants practitioners and participants practitioners and participants to kindly collect your small refreshment to kindly collect your small refreshment to kindly collect your small refreshment packs at the exit gates. Could you share some few message to the you share some few message to the you share some few message to the viewers about this yoga session? Yes, viewers about this yoga session? Yes, viewers about this yoga session? Yes, sure. Today 21st of June 2015 sure. Today 21st of June 2015 sure. Today 21st of June 2015 is the first international day of yoga. is the first international day of yoga. is the first international day of yoga. As you all probably know, the United As you all probably know, the United As you all probably know, the United Nations General Assembly late last year Nations General Assembly late last year Nations General Assembly late last year in December 2014 decided unanimously in December 2014 decided unanimously in December 2014 decided unanimously that 21st of June each year will be that 21st of June each year will be that 21st of June each year will be celebrated as international day of yoga. celebrated as international day of yoga. celebrated as international day of yoga. So this year 2015 is the first So this year 2015 is the first So this year 2015 is the first international day of yoga and it is international day of yoga and it is international day of yoga and it is being celebrated in many many countries being celebrated in many many countries being celebrated in many many countries across the world. According to our across the world. According to our across the world. According to our statistics, International Day of Yoga is statistics, International Day of Yoga is statistics, International Day of Yoga is being celebrated in 192 countries across being celebrated in 192 countries across being celebrated in 192 countries across the globe and it was important that we the globe and it was important that we the globe and it was important that we mark this event here in Bhutan in Thimu mark this event here in Bhutan in Thimu mark this event here in Bhutan in Thimu and in other places of Bhutan. So what and in other places of Bhutan. So what and in other places of Bhutan. So what we have done this morning is we have had we have done this morning is we have had we have done this morning is we have had a mega yoga session where over 500 a mega yoga session where over 500 a mega yoga session where over 500 people participated people participated people participated including of course the honorable prime including of course the honorable prime including of course the honorable prime minister of Bhutan, four of the cabinet minister of Bhutan, four of the cabinet minister of Bhutan, four of the cabinet members. There were young children from members. There were young children from members. There were young children from schools of Thimu. There were children schools of Thimu. There were children schools of Thimu. There were children and young adults from various colleges and young adults from various colleges and young adults from various colleges of Thimu. So what we did was that we of Thimu. So what we did was that we of Thimu. So what we did was that we practiced yoga for about half an hour. practiced yoga for about half an hour. practiced yoga for about half an hour. It was a series of yoga postures, series It was a series of yoga postures, series It was a series of yoga postures, series of yoga asas that we have done and of yoga asas that we have done and of yoga asas that we have done and performed here and in this way we have performed here and in this way we have performed here and in this way we have marked the first international day of marked the first international day of marked the first international day of yoga. I'm Dr. Shaiu yoga. I'm Dr. Shaiu yoga. I'm Dr. Shaiu working for Nuangu cultural center as a working for Nuangu cultural center as a working for Nuangu cultural center as a yoga teacher which is attached to yoga teacher which is attached to yoga teacher which is attached to embassy of India. embassy of India. embassy of India. Now telling about yoga, it's an very Now telling about yoga, it's an very Now telling about yoga, it's an very very ancient science of living very ancient science of living very ancient science of living but nowadays it has been considered as but nowadays it has been considered as but nowadays it has been considered as more or like an exercise but is a more or like an exercise but is a more or like an exercise but is a science of living. is an art of living. science of living. is an art of living. science of living. is an art of living. The according to the literature it's The according to the literature it's The according to the literature it's been said that the yoga came to been said that the yoga came to been said that the yoga came to existence ever the human kind is in the existence ever the human kind is in the existence ever the human kind is in the world. Ever the humankind came to world. Ever the humankind came to world. Ever the humankind came to existence exist in the universe the yoga existence exist in the universe the yoga existence exist in the universe the yoga came to exist and later on there lot of came to exist and later on there lot of came to exist and later on there lot of rushies lot of our I mean rushies lot of our I mean rushies lot of our I mean Maharishis Maharishis Maharishis they just modified yoga into different they just modified yoga into different they just modified yoga into different categories and the pronounced one is categories and the pronounced one is categories and the pronounced one is ashtanga yoga by Maharishi Patanjali. So ashtanga yoga by Maharishi Patanjali. So ashtanga yoga by Maharishi Patanjali. So it not only says about the physical it not only says about the physical it not only says about the physical postures and meditation and all that. It postures and meditation and all that. It postures and meditation and all that. It also says about how you live in the also says about how you live in the also says about how you live in the society. What are all the courts and society. What are all the courts and society. What are all the courts and contact you'll have to have in the contact you'll have to have in the contact you'll have to have in the society. The second part says about the society. The second part says about the society. The second part says about the individual courts and conduct. You'll individual courts and conduct. You'll individual courts and conduct. You'll have to be clean, happy, truthful all have to be clean, happy, truthful all have to be clean, happy, truthful all that things. So initially they all tell that things. So initially they all tell that things. So initially they all tell about how a man should be in society. about how a man should be in society. about how a man should be in society. How a man should be as an individual. How a man should be as an individual. How a man should be as an individual. how all things he'll have to I mean how all things he'll have to I mean how all things he'll have to I mean assured to keep his health up. Then he assured to keep his health up. Then he assured to keep his health up. Then he says about the postures different says about the postures different says about the postures different postures uh it may be twisting balancing postures uh it may be twisting balancing postures uh it may be twisting balancing lying down standing sitting and all sort lying down standing sitting and all sort lying down standing sitting and all sort of postures. Then he says about the of postures. Then he says about the of postures. Then he says about the pranayama the breathing exercises then pranayama the breathing exercises then pranayama the breathing exercises then getting into the inner mind developing getting into the inner mind developing getting into the inner mind developing practices like dhana dana samadi they practices like dhana dana samadi they practices like dhana dana samadi they have the meditation concentration and have the meditation concentration and have the meditation concentration and being one with the superconsciousness. being one with the superconsciousness. being one with the superconsciousness. And nowadays And nowadays And nowadays almost since three four decades yoga is almost since three four decades yoga is almost since three four decades yoga is used as a therapy tool also it's called used as a therapy tool also it's called used as a therapy tool also it's called yoga therapy and lot and lot of yoga therapy and lot and lot of yoga therapy and lot and lot of researchers have been I mean undertaken researchers have been I mean undertaken researchers have been I mean undertaken and lot and lot of research have been and lot and lot of research have been and lot and lot of research have been successfully done proving the effect of successfully done proving the effect of successfully done proving the effect of yoga in a therapy where you treat a yoga in a therapy where you treat a yoga in a therapy where you treat a disease so altogether it is not only a disease so altogether it is not only a disease so altogether it is not only a prevention method where you live happily prevention method where you live happily prevention method where you live happily live healthy it's also used as a therapy live healthy it's also used as a therapy live healthy it's also used as a therapy where you can treat number of diseases where you can treat number of diseases where you can treat number of diseases through yoga. through yoga. through yoga. And here in Timbu inju culture center we And here in Timbu inju culture center we And here in Timbu inju culture center we are conducting the regular yoga classes are conducting the regular yoga classes are conducting the regular yoga classes where almost 60 to 70 an average of the where almost 60 to 70 an average of the where almost 60 to 70 an average of the participants are there regularly and participants are there regularly and participants are there regularly and they are getting good benefits out of they are getting good benefits out of they are getting good benefits out of yoga. telling about the existence of yoga. telling about the existence of yoga. telling about the existence of yoga. yoga. yoga. They say it is existing or it's existed They say it is existing or it's existed They say it is existing or it's existed almost from the I mean existence of almost from the I mean existence of almost from the I mean existence of human being in the universe. human being in the universe. human being in the universe. So there are number of postures which So there are number of postures which So there are number of postures which been proved which have been named after been proved which have been named after been proved which have been named after number of living beings, non-living number of living beings, non-living number of living beings, non-living beings as well according to the effect beings as well according to the effect beings as well according to the effect of the postures of the postures of the postures and it's keep developing. Now it's a I and it's keep developing. Now it's a I and it's keep developing. Now it's a I mean healthyly viable. It's also made as mean healthyly viable. It's also made as mean healthyly viable. It's also made as a commercially viable I mean tool now a commercially viable I mean tool now a commercially viable I mean tool now and it's spreading all over the world. and it's spreading all over the world. and it's spreading all over the world. And by this international yoga day we And by this international yoga day we And by this international yoga day we have gone to the sky limit where yoga have gone to the sky limit where yoga have gone to the sky limit where yoga has been spread and uh I mean awareness has been spread and uh I mean awareness has been spread and uh I mean awareness been created all over the world.

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 2 =====

Kind: captions
Language: en
The whole world is celebrating yoga today. The
The whole world is celebrating yoga today. The
The whole world is celebrating yoga today. The
second International Yoga
second International Yoga
second International Yoga
Day is being celebrated. The
Day is being celebrated. The
Day is being celebrated. The
celebration of Yoga Day is going on in Bengaluru too. The
celebration of Yoga Day is going on in Bengaluru too. The
program is going on at the Kanthuruva Stadium in Bengaluru. Yoga asanas are being
program is going on at the Kanthuruva Stadium in Bengaluru. Yoga asanas are being
practiced under the guidance of breath guru Vachananananda Swamiji.
practiced under the guidance of breath guru Vachananananda Swamiji.
practiced under the guidance of breath guru Vachananananda Swamiji.
Again do it
relax. One more time.
relax. One more time.
relax. One more time.
Spread the call. I will do as I say.
Spread the call. I will do as I say.
Spread the call. I will do as I say.
Go little that side. Hendry it.
Go little that side. Hendry it.
Go little that side. Hendry it.
Go that
Go that
Go that
side. Its not working. Stand like this. Because it is
side. Its not working. Stand like this. Because it is
side. Its not working. Stand like this. Because it is
not visible there. I want you to see.
not visible there. I want you to see.
not visible there. I want you to see.
They want you to see. Okay. Look.
They want you to see. Okay. Look.
They want you to see. Okay. Look.
Hand it. Just. Command. Command. Sit like this.
Hand it. Just. Command. Command. Sit like this.
Command. Command. One to three. The sun is coming. Because
Command. Command. One to three. The sun is coming. Because
Command. Command. One to three. The sun is coming. Because
of you did Surya Namaskar. The sun is
of you did Surya Namaskar. The sun is
of you did Surya Namaskar. The sun is
rising. The sun is rising in the east. Come
rising. The sun is rising in the east. Come
rising. The sun is rising in the east. Come
on. Do it. One to three. Four.  Do five things,
on. Do it. One to three. Four.  Do five things,
on. Do it. One to three. Four.  Do five things,
command, do it, do it, repeat it,
command, do it, do it, repeat it,
command, do it, do it, repeat it,
repeat
it, stand up, stand up, we will do the
it, stand up, stand up, we will do the
it, stand up, stand up, we will do the
bastrika, okay, raise your right leg,
bastrika, okay, raise your right leg,
bastrika, okay, raise your right leg,
right arm, not right leg, sorry,
right arm, not right leg, sorry,
right arm, not right leg, sorry,
close your left, no still,
change it, other side, those
who do this, gas will not come out,
who do this, gas will not come out,
who do this, gas will not come out,
okay, take it on both hands,
okay, take it on both hands,
take it on both hands, in a few moments, in a few
take it on both hands, in a few moments, in a few
take it on both hands, in a few moments, in a few
minutes, Chief Minister
minutes, Chief Minister
minutes, Chief Minister
Siddaramaiah sir will come on the stage, in a
Siddaramaiah sir will come on the stage, in a
Siddaramaiah sir will come on the stage, in a
few moments, do it,
few moments, do it,
few moments, do it,
repeat it, do it,
repeat it, do it,
repeat it, do it,
you are all young, not old, not old, only old people, I think it is
you are all young, not old, not old, only old people, I think it is
you are all young, not old, not old, only old people, I think it is
enough for old people,
enough for old people,
enough for old people,
how many old people
how many old people
how many old people
are there, now they are
are there, now they are
are there, now they are
decorating the stage, you all should get a loud
decorating the stage, you all should get a loud
decorating the stage, you all should get a loud
applause, Shri DV Sadananda Gowda sir, the
applause, Shri DV Sadananda Gowda sir, the
applause, Shri DV Sadananda Gowda sir, the
Honorable Union Minister of Law and Justice, the
Honorable Union Minister of Law and Justice, the
Honorable Union Minister of Law and Justice, the
Government of India, do this, now Sadananda
Government of India, do this, now Sadananda
Government of India, do this, now Sadananda
Gowda will also do it with you,
Gowda will also do it with you,
Gowda will also do it with you,
he said, "Gowda, take a sip of water and
he said, "Gowda, take a sip of water and
take your hands up, here I
take your hands up, here I
take your hands up, here I
see, very
much."  A loud applause for Sadananda Gowda, who is a dynamic law minister and a
much."  A loud applause for Sadananda Gowda, who is a dynamic law minister and a
much."  A loud applause for Sadananda Gowda, who is a dynamic law minister and a
representative of the Indian government,
representative of the Indian government,
Sadananda Gowda's name is always smiling. His spontaneous
Sadananda Gowda's name is always smiling. His spontaneous
smile is coming out of the heart. Okay,
smile is coming out of the heart. Okay,
smile is coming out of the heart. Okay,
take both hands and
take both hands and
take both hands and
see. A man should not have ego. There is no such thing as ego. There is no
see. A man should not have ego. There is no such thing as ego. There is no
see. A man should not have ego. There is no such thing as ego. There is no
shame in them.
shame in them.
shame in them.
Yoga grows from such people. Also,
Shri P P Chaudhary,
Shri P P Chaudhary,
Shri P P Chaudhary,
MP from Rajasthan, also the Chairman of the
MP from Rajasthan, also the Chairman of the
MP from Rajasthan, also the Chairman of the
Joint Parliament Committee, has arrived at our program. A loud applause should be given to
Joint Parliament Committee, has arrived at our program. A loud applause should be given to
Joint Parliament Committee, has arrived at our program. A loud applause should be given to
him. A warm welcome to P P Chaudhary sir. A
him. A warm welcome to P P Chaudhary sir. A
him. A warm welcome to P P Chaudhary sir. A
little bit of Trikonasana is
little bit of Trikonasana is
little bit of Trikonasana is
coming to the program. A warm welcome to
coming to the program. A warm welcome to
coming to the program. A warm welcome to
Sadhvi Bhagwati Saraswati. A warm applause should be given to him. Take your right leg,
Sadhvi Bhagwati Saraswati. A warm applause should be given to him. Take your right leg,
right foot, right side, slowly
right foot, right side, slowly
right foot, right side, slowly
keep your hands at shoulder level.
keep your hands at shoulder level.
keep your hands at shoulder level.
Look, look, front now.  Slowly go back go down
Look, look, front now.  Slowly go back go down
Look, look, front now.  Slowly go back go down
go to the sari to interrupt there
go to the sari to interrupt there
go to the sari to interrupt there
left there sitting audio care
left there sitting audio care
left there sitting audio care
there please make a big mind come here to the
there please make a big mind come here to the
there please make a big mind come here to the
ground sir please no sun no
ground sir please no sun no
ground sir please no sun no
rain come please
rain come please
rain come please
everyone do yoga welcome up another
everyone do yoga welcome up another
everyone do yoga welcome up another
dynamic
dynamic
dynamic
Ananth Kumar who is the Union Minister of Chemical Fertilizers has
Ananth Kumar who is the Union Minister of Chemical Fertilizers has
Ananth Kumar who is the Union Minister of Chemical Fertilizers has
arrived at the program Shri Ananth
arrived at the program Shri Ananth
arrived at the program Shri Ananth
Kumar Honorable Union Minister of Chemicals and
Kumar Honorable Union Minister of Chemicals and
Kumar Honorable Union Minister of Chemicals and
Fertilizers
Fertilizers
Fertilizers
Government of India slowly put your left foot to the left
Government of India slowly put your left foot to the left
Government of India slowly put your left foot to the left
take your right foot right foot right side
take your right foot right foot right side
take your right foot right foot right side
now slowly go down go to the right side
now slowly go down go to the right side
now slowly go down go to the right side
catch your right ankle look up look at the sky please
catch your right ankle look up look at the sky please
catch your right ankle look up look at the sky please
sitting there
sitting there
sitting there
please come sir madam please come this way up look up
please come sir madam please come this way up look up
inhale come up now
inhale come up now
inhale come up now
slowly again turn your right
slowly again turn your right
slowly again turn your right
left foot left side now slowly bend
left foot left side now slowly bend
left foot left side now slowly bend
your left knee
your left knee
your left knee
bend your left knee  Right knee straight Right knee
bend your left knee  Right knee straight Right knee
bend your left knee  Right knee straight Right knee
straight Look here Gowda Look here
straight Look here Gowda Look here
straight Look here Gowda Look here
Simple like this Make this leg straight
Simple like this Make this leg straight
Simple like this Make this leg straight
S S
S S
S S
Ha hand like this Take care of the tip Look
Ha hand like this Take care of the tip Look
up The
up The
up The
honorable Chief Minister Shri Siddaramaiah
honorable Chief Minister Shri Siddaramaiah
honorable Chief Minister Shri Siddaramaiah
Sir is coming to the program with loud applause
Sir is coming to the program with loud applause
Sir is coming to the program with loud applause
Please welcome him with loud applause International Yoga Day
Please welcome him with loud applause International Yoga Day
Please welcome him with loud applause International Yoga Day
Bangalore The
Bangalore The
Bangalore The
honorable
honorable
honorable
Chief Minister of Karnataka Government Shri
Chief Minister of Karnataka Government Shri
Chief Minister of Karnataka Government Shri
Siddaramaiah
Sir Siddaramaiah, who is the dynamic Chief Minister of Karnataka, is coming on the stage and we are celebrating the
Sir Siddaramaiah, who is the dynamic Chief Minister of Karnataka, is coming on the stage and we are celebrating the
second
second
second
International Yoga Day in Bangalore because of none other than
International Yoga Day in Bangalore because of none other than
International Yoga Day in Bangalore because of none other than
CM Siddaramaiah Ji
CM Siddaramaiah Ji
CM Siddaramaiah Ji
Bangalore Please hear loud applause
Bangalore Please hear loud applause
Bangalore Please hear loud applause
Please The reason why this program has been so grand for two consecutive years is because of
Please The reason why this program has been so grand for two consecutive years is because of
our honorable
our honorable
our honorable
Chief Minister's cooperation and blessings
Chief Minister's cooperation and blessings
Chief Minister's cooperation and blessings
We are celebrating these two years of International Yoga Day
We are celebrating these two years of International Yoga Day
We are celebrating these two years of International Yoga Day
very grandly With
very grandly With
very grandly With
applause on behalf of all of us  Let's
applause on behalf of all of us  Let's
applause on behalf of all of us  Let's
welcome the program, please, the
workers, wash that water plant with water.
workers, wash that water plant with water.
workers, wash that water plant with water.
Now, to start today's program,
Now, to start today's program,
Now, to start today's program,
International Yoga
International Yoga
International Yoga
Day. To start this day, the
Day. To start this day, the
Day. To start this day, the
honorable Chief Minister, Mr. Siddaramaiah,
honorable Chief Minister, Mr. Siddaramaiah,
honorable Chief Minister, Mr. Siddaramaiah,
sir, gives the start by watering the plant.
sir, gives the start by watering the plant.
This is a method of growing eggs. Now, everyone,
This is a method of growing eggs. Now, everyone,
This is a method of growing eggs. Now, everyone,
including the Chief Minister, let's say hi. Let's say
including the Chief Minister, let's say hi. Let's say
including the Chief Minister, let's say hi. Let's say
Kannada,
Kannada,
Kannada,
Kannada, come with us. Kannada, Karnataka must survive.
Kannada, come with us. Kannada, Karnataka must survive.
Kannada, come with us. Kannada, Karnataka must survive.
To that, the
To that, the
To that, the
Chief Minister of Kannada, Siddaramaiah,
Chief Minister of Kannada, Siddaramaiah,
Chief Minister of Kannada, Siddaramaiah,
also says, "
also says, "
also says, "
Start, that hand action, sir." It is with
Start, that hand action, sir." It is with
Start, that hand action, sir." It is with
their efforts that this
their efforts that this
their efforts that this
program is being run so grandly.
program is being run so grandly.
program is being run so grandly.
I hereby request them to
I hereby request them to
welcome all the guests on the stage
today, World
today, World
today, World
Yoga
Yoga
Yoga
Day. This
Day. This
Day. This
program is being organized by the Karnataka government.  The
program is being organized by the Karnataka government.  The
program is being organized by the Karnataka government.  The
Honorable Chief Minister will inaugurate this program.
Honorable Chief Minister will inaugurate this program.
Shri Sadananda Gowda,
Shri Sadananda Gowda,
Shri Sadananda Gowda,
Union Law
Union Law
Union Law
Minister and
Minister and
Minister and
Shri Ananth
Shri Ananth
Shri Ananth
Kumar, Chemical
Kumar, Chemical
Kumar, Chemical
Minister, Shri T. B. Jayachandra, Shri K.
Minister, Shri T. B. Jayachandra, Shri K.
Minister, Shri T. B. Jayachandra, Shri K.
J. George,
J. George,
J. George,
Shri A. Jadhav and U. T. Khader,
Shri A. Jadhav and U. T. Khader,
Shri A. Jadhav and U. T. Khader,
Minister of AYUSH Department and Health, and
all the officials
all the officials
all the officials
and ministers,
MLAs,
all the
all the
all the
dignitaries who have arrived at this program. Today, this
dignitaries who have arrived at this program. Today, this
dignitaries who have arrived at this program. Today, this
program will be inaugurated by our popular
program will be inaugurated by our popular
program will be inaugurated by our popular
Chief Minister
Chief Minister
Chief Minister
Shri Siddaramaiah ji. The
Shri Siddaramaiah ji. The
Shri Siddaramaiah ji. The
government has
government has
government has
also
also
also
given a lot of support to this. This is a
given a lot of support to this. This is a
given a lot of support to this. This is a
program that is being conducted at a global level today. The Central
program that is being conducted at a global level today. The Central
program that is being conducted at a global level today. The Central
Government should also do
Government should also do
Government should also do
this program in every corner of the country and the state. This is a
this program in every corner of the country and the state. This is a
program that has been organized at a global level. This
program that has been organized at a global level. This
program should be done from a young age to a young age. This has been
program should be done from a young age to a young age. This has been
adopted in every country today. In this, I am telling you that the
adopted in every country today. In this, I am telling you that the
adopted in every country today. In this, I am telling you that the
youth in our country should be involved in this in the most part.
youth in our country should be involved in this in the most part.
I am saying this through this. The reason is that from a
I am saying this through this. The reason is that from a
I am saying this through this. The reason is that from a
health perspective, your
health perspective, your
health perspective, your
mindset should be limited,
mindset should be limited,
mindset should be limited,
today yoga is very important. Among the dignitaries who
today yoga is very important. Among the dignitaries who
today yoga is very important. Among the dignitaries who
have arrived at this program
have arrived at this program
have arrived at this program
First of all, I would like to
welcome the Hon'ble Chief Minister, Shri Swamiji, with a loud applause.
Today, for the second time in Karnataka, we are celebrating
Today, for the second time in Karnataka, we are celebrating
Today, for the second time in Karnataka, we are celebrating
International Yoga Day.
International Yoga Day.
International Yoga Day.
Who else is he? Our Chief Minister's
Who else is he? Our Chief Minister's
Who else is he? Our Chief Minister's
efforts are like today's program.
efforts are like today's program.
efforts are like today's program.
Shri D.K. Shivakumar, who is the
Shri D.K. Shivakumar, who is the
Minister of Law, Shri DV Sadananda Gowda, the Union Minister, is also a hearty
supporter. Shri Ananth Kumar, the
supporter. Shri Ananth Kumar, the
supporter. Shri Ananth Kumar, the
Union Minister of Chemicals, is a
Union Minister of Chemicals, is a
Union Minister of Chemicals, is a
hearty
welcome to him. If you look at him, he is a yoga pattu. The
welcome to him. If you look at him, he is a yoga pattu. The
Prime Ministers of our state and our country had not yet announced the celebration of Yoga Day.
Prime Ministers of our state and our country had not yet announced the celebration of Yoga Day.
Prime Ministers of our state and our country had not yet announced the celebration of Yoga Day.
In 2014, for the first time, on
In 2014, for the first time, on
In 2014, for the first time, on
June 21, our Ananth
June 21, our Ananth
June 21, our Ananth
Kumar started it himself.
Kumar started it himself.
Kumar started it himself.
In 2014, he clapped loudly
In 2014, he clapped loudly
In 2014, he clapped loudly
[applause]
and welcome our Law Minister, TB
and welcome our Law Minister, TB
and welcome our Law Minister, TB
Jayachendra,
Jayachendra,
Jayachendra,
and welcome
and welcome
and welcome
Shri K.J. George, who is the Urban Development Minister of Bangalore.
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Welcome Shri Jadhav, MLA, UT,
Welcome Shri Jadhav, MLA, UT,
Welcome Shri Jadhav, MLA, UT,
Health Minister, see UT Khader.  The
Health Minister, see UT Khader.  The
Health Minister, see UT Khader.  The
most young and energetic people
most young and energetic people
most young and energetic people
in the cabinet of the Chief Minister are doing
in the cabinet of the Chief Minister are doing
in the cabinet of the Chief Minister are doing
yoga very well.
yoga very well.
yoga very well.
Health Ministers should take care of health. Health
Health Ministers should take care of health. Health
Health Ministers should take care of health. Health
is wealth. Who is
is wealth. Who is
is wealth. Who is
our UT Khader,
our UT Khader,
our UT Khader,
MLA Jadhav and
MLA Jadhav and
Shri Meena, who is the Principal Secretary of Higher Education AC, have
Shri Meena, who is the Principal Secretary of Higher Education AC, have
Shri Meena, who is the Principal Secretary of Higher Education AC, have
come for this program. They have a major
come for this program. They have a major
come for this program. They have a major
role in this. Look, if so many children had to join last year, it was
role in this. Look, if so many children had to join last year, it was
role in this. Look, if so many children had to join last year, it was
not because of Bharat Lal
not because of Bharat Lal
not because of Bharat Lal
Meena. Look at how much
Meena. Look at how much
Meena. Look at how much
energy there is on his face. We applauded Bharat Lal
energy there is on his face. We applauded Bharat Lal
energy there is on his face. We applauded Bharat Lal
Meena loudly.
Meena loudly.
Welcome to Shri DK Shivakumar, who is the Energy Minister, and P P Chaudhary, Lok Sabha
Welcome to Shri DK Shivakumar, who is the Energy Minister, and P P Chaudhary, Lok Sabha
Welcome to Shri DK Shivakumar, who is the Energy Minister, and P P Chaudhary, Lok Sabha
member. Swamiji P P Chaudhary,
member. Swamiji P P Chaudhary,
member. Swamiji P P Chaudhary,
Lok Sabha
Lok Sabha
Lok Sabha
member from Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan,
member from Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan,
member from Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan,
Rajasthan,
and our Shalini Rajneesh, who was very
and our Shalini Rajneesh, who was very
and our Shalini Rajneesh, who was very
inspired to
inspired to
inspired to
organize the program. It was raining in the morning. In
organize the program. It was raining in the morning. In
organize the program. It was raining in the morning. In
such a situation, you  Who was there who
such a situation, you  Who was there who
such a situation, you  Who was there who
came here himself and asked Swamiji what to do? There was
came here himself and asked Swamiji what to do? There was
came here himself and asked Swamiji what to do? There was
confusion when he was there.
confusion when he was there.
confusion when he was there.
Swamiji
Swamiji
Swamiji
said, "You do it here, it will be good." Welcome to
said, "You do it here, it will be good." Welcome to
said, "You do it here, it will be good." Welcome to
our Jorai
our Jorai
our Jorai
Tatti and all the dignitaries on the stage who are the reason for doing it. Welcome
Tatti and all the dignitaries on the stage who are the reason for doing it. Welcome
Tatti and all the dignitaries on the stage who are the reason for doing it. Welcome
and
and
and
also to all the yoga masters who have arrived here.
also to all the yoga masters who have arrived here.
also to all the yoga masters who have arrived here.
Here,
Here,
Here,
especially the 86-
especially the 86-
especially the 86-
year-
year-
year-
old Honnappa Nayak, who taught yoga to Dr. Rajkumar,
old Honnappa Nayak, who taught yoga to Dr. Rajkumar,
old Honnappa Nayak, who taught yoga to Dr. Rajkumar,
is on the stage. Let us welcome him with a loud applause.
is on the stage. Let us welcome him with a loud applause.
Who is a model for today's youth who are full of youth even at the age of 86?
Who is a model for today's youth who are full of youth even at the age of 86?
Who is a model for today's youth who are full of youth even at the age of 86?
Who is not our Honnappa Nayak?
Who is not our Honnappa Nayak?
Who is not our Honnappa Nayak?
Honnappa Nayak. Thank you sir.
Thank you. Now, let us welcome
Thank you. Now, let us welcome
Mr. U. T. Khader, the
Mr. U. T. Khader, the
Mr. U. T. Khader, the
Honorable Minister of Health and Family Welfare, on the stage with a
Honorable Minister of Health and Family Welfare, on the stage with a
Honorable Minister of Health and Family Welfare, on the stage with a
loud applause. The audience should give a loud applause.
loud applause. The audience should give a loud applause.
loud applause. The audience should give a loud applause.
Our AD GP has also come to this program. Let us give a
Our AD GP has also come to this program. Let us give a
Our AD GP has also come to this program. Let us give a
loud applause to him.
On the occasion of World Yoga Day, the
On the occasion of World Yoga Day, the
On the occasion of World Yoga Day, the
children of Karnataka state are sitting here, who should not go and start
children of Karnataka state are sitting here, who should not go and start
children of Karnataka state are sitting here, who should not go and start
this meaningful
this meaningful
this meaningful
and beautiful program and make this
and beautiful program and make this
and beautiful program and make this
program very successful.
program very successful.
program very successful.
Today, along with yoga, the
Today, along with yoga, the
Today, along with yoga, the
state's favorite
state's favorite
state's favorite
Chief Minister, Honorable Siddaramaiah Ji, who is fully cooperating with the Health Department,
Chief Minister, Honorable Siddaramaiah Ji, who is fully cooperating with the Health Department,
Chief Minister, Honorable Siddaramaiah Ji, who is fully cooperating with the Health Department,
came as the chief guest of the program and made this
came as the chief guest of the program and made this
came as the chief guest of the program and made this
program very beautiful.
program very beautiful.
program very beautiful.
Union Minister Sadananda Gowdre, Union
Union Minister Sadananda Gowdre, Union
Union Minister Sadananda Gowdre, Union
Minister Ananth Kumar Saheb, who is our
Minister Ananth Kumar Saheb, who is our
Minister Ananth Kumar Saheb, who is our
state minister, DK Shivakumar Ji, who is the
state minister, DK Shivakumar Ji, who is the
state minister, DK Shivakumar Ji, who is the
state minister, the in-charge minister of the
state minister, the in-charge minister of the
state minister, the in-charge minister of the
district, KS
district, KS
district, KS
George, who is the parliamentary secretary of our health department,
George, who is the parliamentary secretary of our health department,
George, who is the parliamentary secretary of our health department,
Jadhav, the Olympic
Jadhav, the Olympic
Jadhav, the Olympic
Association President,
Association President,
Sanmitra Govindaraj, who is the Law Minister
Sanmitra Govindaraj, who is the Law Minister
Sanmitra Govindaraj, who is the Law Minister
and the honorable
and the honorable
and the honorable
TB Jayachandra, who is a senior to all of us, Choudhary, who is an MP, and all
TB Jayachandra, who is a senior to all of us, Choudhary, who is an MP, and all
TB Jayachandra, who is a senior to all of us, Choudhary, who is an MP, and all
our various department
our various department
our various department
officials, our class, are distinguished persons. In this
officials, our class, are distinguished persons. In this
officials, our class, are distinguished persons. In this
program, perhaps today we and all of
program, perhaps today we and all of
program, perhaps today we and all of
you will be able to learn yoga.  Special
you will be able to learn yoga.  Special
you will be able to learn yoga.  Special
guidance from the health gurus,
guidance from the health gurus,
guidance from the health gurus,
all my gurus, elders, brothers, dear
all my gurus, elders, brothers, dear
all my gurus, elders, brothers, dear
friends, dear students,
friends, dear students,
friends, dear students,
students,
students,
students,
yoga is a gift that the sages of this country have given not only to India but also to the
yoga is a gift that the sages of this country have given not only to India but also to the
yoga is a gift that the sages of this country have given not only to India but also to the
world. It is the
world. It is the
responsibility of all of us today to preserve and develop it. In such a
responsibility of all of us today to preserve and develop it. In such a
responsibility of all of us today to preserve and develop it. In such a
situation, when the Yoga Day is celebrated in the whole world today, it is the
situation, when the Yoga Day is celebrated in the whole world today, it is the
special responsibility of the state of Karnataka. In
special responsibility of the state of Karnataka. In
every part of the state of Karnataka, whether it is the youth,
every part of the state of Karnataka, whether it is the youth,
every part of the state of Karnataka, whether it is the youth,
students, elders, everyone should be
students, elders, everyone should be
students, elders, everyone should be
aware of yoga and practice it. In the
aware of yoga and practice it. In the
aware of yoga and practice it. In the
future, we have come here by doing our work in a way that will contribute to a very
future, we have come here by doing our work in a way that will contribute to a very
future, we have come here by doing our work in a way that will contribute to a very
healthy society and a developed Karnataka
healthy society and a developed Karnataka
healthy society and a developed Karnataka
and a strong India.
and a strong India.
I have always said one thing today.
I have always said one thing today.
I have always said one thing today.
Perhaps, if we
Perhaps, if we
Perhaps, if we
say that yoga has cured medicine today, we all
say that yoga has cured medicine today, we all
know it very well today. Therefore, perhaps we should all practice
know it very well today. Therefore, perhaps we should all practice
this yoga-
this yoga-
this yoga-
related practice today and
related practice today and
become healthy in the future. The power to prevent any disease is the
become healthy in the future. The power to prevent any disease is the
personality of each person and  The
personality of each person and  The
personality of each person and  The
program should be organized in a way that gives opportunities in life. For
program should be organized in a way that gives opportunities in life. For
program should be organized in a way that gives opportunities in life. For
that, the Honorable
that, the Honorable
that, the Honorable
Chief Minister has given all the cooperation and today,
Chief Minister has given all the cooperation and today,
Chief Minister has given all the cooperation and today,
every district of our entire district has also taken
every district of our entire district has also taken
every district of our entire district has also taken
special funds for this
special funds for this
special funds for this
program. For
program. For
that, on behalf of the people of Karnataka,
that, on behalf of the people of Karnataka,
I congratulate and thank all the organizers.
I congratulate and thank all the organizers.
I congratulate and thank all the organizers.
Perhaps, all we can say to the youth is that today,
Perhaps, all we can say to the youth is that today,
Perhaps, all we can say to the youth is that today,
your lifestyle and diet should pay
your lifestyle and diet should pay
your lifestyle and diet should pay
special attention to cleanliness and take special care of your
special attention to cleanliness and take special care of your
special attention to cleanliness and take special care of your
health.
health.
health.
Perhaps, today, water
Perhaps, today, water
Perhaps, today, water
and air are two medicines. If
and air are two medicines. If
and air are two medicines. If
you all consume these medicines correctly, then
you all consume these medicines correctly, then
today is the opportunity for you all to be healthy. Now, perhaps,
today is the opportunity for you all to be healthy. Now, perhaps,
today is the opportunity for you all to be healthy. Now, perhaps,
what has happened to all of you youth and the people?
what has happened to all of you youth and the people?
what has happened to all of you youth and the people?
Cigarettes have become a fashion.
Cigarettes have become a fashion.
Cigarettes have become a fashion.
Second, today, perhaps,
Second, today, perhaps,
Second, today, perhaps,
Coca-Cola and Pepsi have become other cold
Coca-Cola and Pepsi have become other cold
Coca-Cola and Pepsi have become other cold
drinks. Now, everyone is in fashion. Everyone in the
drinks. Now, everyone is in fashion. Everyone in the
drinks. Now, everyone is in fashion. Everyone in the
group smokes
group smokes
group smokes
cigarettes and
cigarettes and
cigarettes and
drinks cold drinks. Tomorrow, when you go to the ICU and
drinks cold drinks. Tomorrow, when you go to the ICU and
drinks cold drinks. Tomorrow, when you go to the ICU and
sleep there, you will be the only one except for
sleep there, you will be the only one except for
sleep there, you will be the only one except for
one of you.  It is not possible to come, so
one of you.  It is not possible to come, so
one of you.  It is not possible to come, so
who do you want to come to the ICU?
who do you want to come to the ICU?
who do you want to come to the ICU?
Today, they should all start yoga and
Today, they should all start yoga and
Today, they should all start yoga and
take their lifestyle forward.
take their lifestyle forward.
take their lifestyle forward.
I also want to say that
I also want to say that
I also want to say that
perhaps our health department and
perhaps our health department and
perhaps our health department and
AYUSH department should join hands and perhaps by
AYUSH department should join hands and perhaps by
providing yoga training to all the school teachers today, those teachers should
providing yoga training to all the school teachers today, those teachers should
providing yoga training to all the school teachers today, those teachers should
convert it to students. In the
convert it to students. In the
same way, the police
same way, the police
same way, the police
department will also organize a program in the coming days, the health department
department will also organize a program in the coming days, the health department
department will also organize a program in the coming days, the health department
and the program will
and the program will
show the power of the mind in the future to deal with stress management and those problems that come up. The
show the power of the mind in the future to deal with stress management and those problems that come up. The
show the power of the mind in the future to deal with stress management and those problems that come up. The
honorable Chief Minister has
honorable Chief Minister has
honorable Chief Minister has
given us complete cooperation and
given us complete cooperation and
given us complete cooperation and
said that he would like to convey my special
said that he would like to convey my special
said that he would like to convey my special
greetings and congratulations to all of you. You have all
greetings and congratulations to all of you. You have all
greetings and congratulations to all of you. You have all
come with great interest. It is not only Yoga Day that
come with great interest. It is not only Yoga Day that
come with great interest. It is not only Yoga Day that
you should do yoga, but
you should do yoga, but
you should do yoga, but
every day of the year, even if it is a little time,
every day of the year, even if it is a little time,
every day of the year, even if it is a little time,
today, even if it is related to our health. I would like to
today, even if it is related to our health. I would like to
today, even if it is related to our health. I would like to
say that I would like to convey my
say that I would like to convey my
say that I would like to convey my
greetings to you and
greetings to you and
greetings to you and
conclude my speech. Jai Hind Jai Karnataka.
conclude my speech. Jai Hind Jai Karnataka.
conclude my speech. Jai Hind Jai Karnataka.
On the stage, especially the world's oldest
On the stage, especially the world's oldest
On the stage, especially the world's oldest
yoga practitioner
yoga practitioner
yoga practitioner
Nanamali, who has been a harvester in this country for the past 80 years, a
Nanamali, who has been a harvester in this country for the past 80 years, a
98-year-old grandmother Nanamali, who has been teaching yoga to the common people in a small village for 80 years, has come on the stage. Let's applaud her loudly and
98-year-old grandmother Nanamali, who has been teaching yoga to the common people in a small village for 80 years, has come on the stage. Let's applaud her loudly and
welcome the world's oldest yoga practitioner Nanamali to the program with loud applause. Now, to
welcome the world's oldest yoga practitioner Nanamali to the program with loud applause. Now, to
welcome the world's oldest yoga practitioner Nanamali to the program with loud applause. Now, to
officially launch this program, the
officially launch this program, the
officially launch this program, the
Honorable Chief Minister of Karnataka,
Honorable Chief Minister of Karnataka,
Honorable Chief Minister of Karnataka,
Shri Siddaramaiah Sir, will start the program
Shri Siddaramaiah Sir, will start the program
Shri Siddaramaiah Sir, will start the program
by watering the plant.
by watering the plant.
All the dignitaries who graced the stage are
All the dignitaries who graced the stage are
All the dignitaries who graced the stage are
requested to join hands. Are you sitting relaxed? Give
requested to join hands. Are you sitting relaxed? Give
requested to join hands. Are you sitting relaxed? Give
a little applause.
a little applause.
a little applause.
We are happy. Thank you. The
inauguration by the Honorable Chief Minister.
inauguration by the Honorable Chief Minister.
inauguration by the Honorable Chief Minister.
After this, the portal launch will launch a portal with
After this, the portal launch will launch a portal with
After this, the portal launch will launch a portal with
information about yoga teachers and yoga centers in the state.
information about yoga teachers and yoga centers in the state.
information about yoga teachers and yoga centers in the state.
So I
So I
So I
request the Honorable Chief Minister of Karnataka,
request the Honorable Chief Minister of Karnataka,
request the Honorable Chief Minister of Karnataka,
Shri Siddaramaiah Sir, to please do the
Shri Siddaramaiah Sir, to please do the
Shri Siddaramaiah Sir, to please do the
needful breath Guru.
पादांता
पादांता
पादांता
वंदे
वंदे
वंदे
[संगीत]
[संगीत]
[संगीत]
गुरु पारमपरा [
संगीत] गुरु पारमपरा [संगीत]
पारमपरा
Vande Guru
Vande Guru
Vande Guru
Parampara Please come and hear the applause Please please
Parampara Please come and hear the applause Please please
Parampara Please come and hear the applause Please please
audience Thank you so much Thank you
sir Now let's welcome the
sir Now let's welcome the
sir Now let's welcome the
honorable Chief Minister of Karnataka
honorable Chief Minister of Karnataka
honorable Chief Minister of Karnataka
Government Shri Siddaramaiah Sir with
Government Shri Siddaramaiah Sir with
Government Shri Siddaramaiah Sir with
a couple of words and loud applause
a couple of words and loud applause
International
Yoga Janardhana For participating in this
occasion
Honorable Ministers of the Centre
Shri Ananth Kumar
Shri Sadananda Gowda
State
Ministers Jayachandra
Ministers Jayachandra
Ministers Jayachandra
Shivakumar
Shivakumar
Shivakumar
UT Khader
UT Khader
UT Khader
's family KJ George
Govindaraju
Govindaraju
Govindaraju
Dr. Jadhav
All friends
Yoga Gurus For
participating in this program All
participating in this program All
participating in this program All
dear brothers and sisters Students
dear brothers and sisters Students
dear brothers and sisters Students
All friends of the media As per the
resolution of the United Nations, June 21st is celebrated as
Yoga Day all over the world
Last year too on June 21st
we celebrated International Yoga Janardhana  The day
we celebrated International Yoga Janardhana  The day
we celebrated International Yoga Janardhana  The day
was celebrated this year as well.
was celebrated this year as well.
was celebrated this year as well.
Every year, it will be celebrated on
Every year, it will be celebrated on
Every year, it will be celebrated on
June 21st.
I think it is a very appropriate and welcome decision for the United Nations to make such a decision.
I think it is a very appropriate and welcome decision for the United Nations to make such a decision.
I think it is a very appropriate and welcome decision for the United Nations to make such a decision.
Yoga is an ancient part of Indian culture. It is as if the
Yoga is an ancient part of Indian culture. It is as if the
Yoga is an ancient part of Indian culture. It is as if the
sages
have given it to our society.
have given it to our society.
have given it to our society.
We have
a proverb that says, "Those who know how to eat, have no disease. Those who know how to speak, have no quarrel." It
a proverb that says, "Those who know how to eat, have no disease. Those who know how to speak, have no quarrel." It
a proverb that says, "Those who know how to eat, have no disease. Those who know how to speak, have no quarrel." It
means that those who maintain good habits in their diet,
means that those who maintain good habits in their diet,
means that those who maintain good habits in their diet,
eat the food that is necessary for their health. We should learn to speak
good words, and
good words, and
speak without hurting others. If
speak without hurting others. If
speak without hurting others. If
we adopt these habits and practice them, then
we adopt these habits and practice them, then
we adopt these habits and practice them, then
disease will not come. It is not
disease will not come. It is not
disease will not come. It is not
possible for us to have quarrels. It is
possible for us to have quarrels. It is
not possible for there to be conflicts. Now, we can change it a little and
not possible for there to be conflicts. Now, we can change it a little and
not possible for there to be conflicts. Now, we can change it a little and
say that even if it
is said that those who know how to do yoga, there is no disease.
is said that those who know how to do yoga, there is no disease.
is said that those who know how to do yoga, there is no disease.
That is right. I also want to say these words.
That is right. I also want to say these words.
I have been practicing yoga for the
I have been practicing yoga for the
I have been practicing yoga for the
past two
past two
past two
years, off-course, every day.  I do it regularly or
years, off-course, every day.  I do it regularly or
years, off-course, every day.  I do it regularly or
not. I do it whenever I am in Bangalore for a week. A
not. I do it whenever I am in Bangalore for a week. A
yoga guru comes to me and
yoga guru comes to me and
teaches me yoga when I am in Bangalore. I have seen
many
many
many
changes in my experience, both physically and
changes in my experience, both physically and
changes in my experience, both physically and
mentally. I would
like to share these words on this occasion. If you
start practicing yoga from a young age and
start practicing yoga from a young age and
do it daily, if you dedicate 24 hours a day to
do it daily, if you dedicate 24 hours a day to
do it daily, if you dedicate 24 hours a day to
yoga, then
yoga, then
yoga, then
perhaps you will be able to stay cheerful and happy for the rest of the day for 23 hours. This is something that
perhaps you will be able to stay cheerful and happy for the rest of the day for 23 hours. This is something that
perhaps you will be able to stay cheerful and happy for the rest of the day for 23 hours. This is something that
everyone should do for their health and
everyone should do for their health and
everyone should do for their health and
mental balance.
mental balance.
I think it is very good. The
I think it is very good. The
government through the AYUSH department, the Primary
government through the AYUSH department, the Primary
government through the AYUSH department, the Primary
Education department, the
Education department, the
Education department, the
Higher Education department should do something to make everyone, including students, aware of
Higher Education department should do something to make everyone, including students, aware of
Higher Education department should do something to make everyone, including students, aware of
this proper yoga
this proper yoga
this proper yoga
practice. I think it is
practice. I think it is
also
also
also
very
very
very
important to make yoga education compulsory in schools in a phased manner because yoga  You
important to make yoga education compulsory in schools in a phased manner because yoga  You
need a teacher to teach you, don't you? You don't need a teacher. You don't need to practice yoga
need a teacher to teach you, don't you? You don't need a teacher. You don't need to practice yoga
because it has to be practiced scientifically. That's
because it has to be practiced scientifically. That's
because it has to be practiced scientifically. That's
why you need to learn yoga from a teacher and then after you learn
why you need to learn yoga from a teacher and then after you learn
why you need to learn yoga from a teacher and then after you learn
yoga
yoga
yoga
well,
well,
well,
you need to practice yoga yourself. It's
you need to practice yoga yourself. It's
very good to learn from a yoga teacher before learning from it. It's
very good to learn from a yoga teacher before learning from it. It's
not possible to do it perfectly and correctly by watching it on TV. Maybe yoga teachers will agree with me.
not possible to do it perfectly and correctly by watching it on TV. Maybe yoga teachers will agree with me.
not possible to do it perfectly and correctly by watching it on TV. Maybe yoga teachers will agree with me.
I
I
I
think that if
think that if
think that if
we learn yoga from yoga teachers and
we learn yoga from yoga teachers and
we learn yoga from yoga teachers and
do it daily, we will be able to stay away from many problems. Diabetes, diabetes, diabetics, etc. It is a
do it daily, we will be able to stay away from many problems. Diabetes, diabetes, diabetics, etc. It is a
big disease for
big disease for
big disease for
everyone.
We need to keep diabetes under control. Yoga is
We need to keep diabetes under control. Yoga is
We need to keep diabetes under control. Yoga is
very
very
very
important. I also have diabetes. After
important. I also have diabetes. After
important. I also have diabetes. After
starting yoga, if we
starting yoga, if we
starting yoga, if we
practice yoga continuously, yoga will be under
practice yoga continuously, yoga will be under
practice yoga continuously, yoga will be under
control,
control,
control,
otherwise diabetes will start controlling us.  A
otherwise diabetes will start controlling us.  A
situation arises where we are susceptible to many diseases,
situation arises where we are susceptible to many diseases,
situation arises where we are susceptible to many diseases,
so if
so if
so if
we want to always maintain physical and mental balance,
we want to always maintain physical and mental balance,
yoga is very necessary for us.
yoga is very necessary for us.
yoga is very necessary for us.
But for this, it is
But for this, it is
But for this, it is
not limited to any religion or
not limited to any religion or
not limited to any religion or
age. People of
age. People of
age. People of
all religions need health from the point of view of health. People of
all religions need health from the point of view of health. People of
all religions need health from the point of view of health. People of
all religions
all religions
all religions
need health. People of all ages
need health. People of all ages
need health. People of all ages
need health. But from a young age,
need health. But from a young age,
need health. But from a young age,
even the young and old, even the old and the young can
even the young and old, even the old and the young can
even the young and old, even the old and the young can
do yoga. I was
do yoga. I was
do yoga. I was
asking. Now, the
asking. Now, the
asking. Now, the
gurus who taught yoga to Rajkumar are still
gurus who taught yoga to Rajkumar are still
gurus who taught yoga to Rajkumar are still
here. Dr. Rajkumar is still
here. Dr. Rajkumar is still
here. Dr. Rajkumar is still
teaching yoga. He
teaching yoga. He
teaching yoga. He
was in the police department. He
was in the police department. He
was a DIG. He is still 84 years old. Look, he is still
was a DIG. He is still 84 years old. Look, he is still
was a DIG. He is still 84 years old. Look, he is still
very strong. That is why there is no
very strong. That is why there is no
age limit for practicing yoga.
age limit for practicing yoga.
age limit for practicing yoga.
Even the young and old can do it. Now I am
Even the young and old can do it. Now I am
Even the young and old can do it. Now I am
68 years old. Now I am
68 years old. Now I am
68 years old. Now I am
doing yoga easily. That is why
doing yoga easily. That is why
doing yoga easily. That is why
age does not hinder me. The government of Karnataka said these words on this
age does not hinder me. The government of Karnataka said these words on this
age does not hinder me. The government of Karnataka said these words on this
occasion.  In
occasion.  In
all the schools and
all the schools and
all the schools and
colleges in the entire state, it has provided
colleges in the entire state, it has provided
colleges in the entire state, it has provided
all the help and cooperation to celebrate the International Day of Yoga. I would like to
all the help and cooperation to celebrate the International Day of Yoga. I would like to
say these words on this occasion. The
say these words on this occasion. The
Karnataka government will do everything to fully implement this yoga practice, to encourage it, to cooperate with it. I would like to
Karnataka government will do everything to fully implement this yoga practice, to encourage it, to cooperate with it. I would like to
Karnataka government will do everything to fully implement this yoga practice, to encourage it, to cooperate with it. I would like to
say these words and end my speech by wishing all of you and
say these words and end my speech by wishing all of you and
say these words and end my speech by wishing all of you and
the people of the entire state a happy International Day of
the people of the entire state a happy International Day of
the people of the entire state a happy International Day of
Yoga.
Yoga.
Yoga.
Jai Hind Jai Karnataka
Jai Hind Jai Karnataka
Jai Hind Jai Karnataka
World Yoga Day Bangalore Kanthirao
World Yoga Day Bangalore Kanthirao
World Yoga Day Bangalore Kanthirao
Ka
Ka
Ka
Many people including Bollywood actress Bipasha Basu are practicing yoga in the gymnasium.
Many people including Bollywood actress Bipasha Basu are practicing yoga in the gymnasium.
We are watching its live broadcast. Nishwasa Vaisehi Dekhe Ke Liye Koshish Keejiye Nimma Uchvasa Nichvasa Goe
We are watching its live broadcast. Nishwasa Vaisehi Dekhe Ke Liye Koshish Keejiye Nimma Uchvasa Nichvasa Goe
We are watching its live broadcast. Nishwasa Vaisehi Dekhe Ke Liye Koshish Keejiye Nimma Uchvasa Nichvasa Goe
Observing your breath, let the
Observing your breath, let the
Observing your breath, let the
fragrance of your breath be, let the
fragrance of your breath be, let the
fragrance of your breath be, let the
forgiveness of your hands be, let the peace of mind be, let the peace of the grave be, the
forgiveness of your hands be, let the peace of mind be, let the peace of the grave be, the
forgiveness of your hands be, let the peace of mind be, let the peace of the grave be, the
world is yours, then the peace of the equanimity be, slowly observe your breath as it is, do not interpret with your breath, inhale slowly, gently, even
world is yours, then the peace of the equanimity be, slowly observe your breath as it is, do not interpret with your breath, inhale slowly, gently, even
world is yours, then the peace of the equanimity be, slowly observe your breath as it is, do not interpret with your breath, inhale slowly, gently, even
and smoothly, exhale, lovely, completely, peace, fully,
and smoothly, exhale, lovely, completely, peace, fully,
let all the toxins,
let all the toxins,
let all the toxins,
carbon dioxide, go out, let
carbon dioxide, go out, let
carbon dioxide, go out, let
all the
all the
all the
hatred, enmity, let go
hatred, enmity, let go
hatred, enmity, let go
out, exhale, inhale, love, light,
divinity, just observe your breath, breath.
divinity, just observe your breath, breath.
divinity, just observe your breath, breath.
Jab Tak Shwas Tab Tak Jan As Long
Jab Tak Shwas Tab Tak Jan As Long
Jab Tak Shwas Tab Tak Jan As Long
As You Breathe It Means You Are In The
As You Breathe It Means You Are In The
As You Breathe It Means You Are In The
Life The Moment Breath Leaves The Body We Are No More
Life The Moment Breath Leaves The Body We Are No More
Just Observe Your Breath Breath
Just Observe Your Breath Breath
Just Observe Your Breath Breath
Is Not Either In The Past Or In The
Is Not Either In The Past Or In The
Is Not Either In The Past Or In The
Future Its Moment In Time
Slowly Bring Your Mind Attentively Tip
Slowly Bring Your Mind Attentively Tip
Slowly Bring Your Mind Attentively Tip
Up The
Up The
Up The
Nose Feel The Flow
And
And
And
Now Maintaining The Same Awareness Of
Now Maintaining The Same Awareness Of
Now Maintaining The Same Awareness Of
Breath Now Take A Deep
Inhalation Chant Three Times Om Together Me
Inhalation Chant Three Times Om Together Me
Inhalation Chant Three Times Om Together Me
Everyone Let's Say Om For A Long Time Take A Deep
Everyone Let's Say Om For A Long Time Take A Deep
Everyone Let's Say Om For A Long Time Take A Deep
Breath Say
Breath Say
Breath Say
With Me Everyone Let The Chant Of Om Be
With Me Everyone Let The Chant Of Om Be
With Me Everyone Let The Chant Of Om Be
Produced Take A Deep Breath
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Om Again Om Om
Om Again Om Om
Om Again Om Om
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
One More Time
One More Time
One More Time
Om
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
We Have Said As We Have Said Jaise Mai Kahunga  Vise
We Have Said As We Have Said Jaise Mai Kahunga  Vise
We Have Said As We Have Said Jaise Mai Kahunga  Vise
Dauraiyeye Sarve Jana Sukhino Bhavantu Sarve Saintu Niramaya Sarve Niramaya Sarve Bhadrani Pashyantu Sarveshu Makasi Dukka Bhaga Bhave Makasi Dukka Bhaga
Om Shanti Shanti Shantihi
Om Shanti Shanti Shantihi
Om Shanti Shanti Shantihi
Om Shanti Shanti
Om Shanti Shanti
Om Shanti Shanti
Now Gently Bring Your Palms In
Now Gently Bring Your Palms In
Now Gently Bring Your Palms In
Front Of Your Heart Center Slowly Bring Your
Front Of Your Heart Center Slowly Bring Your
Front Of Your Heart Center Slowly Bring Your
Hands To The Heart Center Come On Apne Vishnu
Hands To The Heart Center Come On Apne Vishnu
Hands To The Heart Center Come On Apne Vishnu
Chhatti Par Laiye Now Gently
Chhatti Par Laiye Now Gently
Chhatti Par Laiye Now Gently
Rub Your Palms With Your Hands Breathe Slowly
Rub Your Palms With Your Hands Breathe Slowly
Rub Your Palms With Your Hands Breathe Slowly
Make Your Palms Warm And
Make Your Palms Warm And
Make Your Palms Warm And
Warm Now
Warm Now
Warm Now
Slowly Place Your Palms On Your Eyes
Slowly Place Your Palms On Your Eyes
Slowly Place Your Palms On Your Eyes
Keep Your Hands On Your Eyes Let
Keep Your Hands On Your Eyes Let
Keep Your Hands On Your Eyes Let
That Hot Air Blow
That Hot Air Blow
That Hot Air Blow
Through Your Eyes There Is A Shine In Your Eyes There Is
Through Your Eyes There Is A Shine In Your Eyes There Is
Through Your Eyes There Is A Shine In Your Eyes There Is
A New Vision In Your Eyes
A New Vision In Your Eyes
A New Vision In Your Eyes
You Will Get New Vision Now Slowly Take
You Will Get New Vision Now Slowly Take
You Will Get New Vision Now Slowly Take
Your Palms Away From Your Eyes Take Your Hands In Front Of Your Eyes Rub Your
Your Palms Away From Your Eyes Take Your Hands In Front Of Your Eyes Rub Your
Hands Again Gently Rub Your
Hands Again Gently Rub Your
Hands Again Gently Rub Your
Palms Gently Massage All Your Facial
Palms Gently Massage All Your Facial
Palms Gently Massage All Your Facial
Muscles If you practice every day you
Muscles If you practice every day you
Muscles If you practice every day you
need you no need to you no need to apply
need you no need to you no need to apply
need you no need to you no need to apply
any cream go and fold your hands
any cream go and fold your hands
any cream go and fold your hands
another
another
another
time ha now I will tell you
time ha now I will tell you
time ha now I will tell you
a simple pranayama
a simple pranayama
a simple pranayama
nadi shodhana do this everyone everyone do this win victory everyone should
nadi shodhana do this everyone everyone do this win victory everyone should
win do this
win do this
win do this
everyone make two hands chief minister ha yes
everyone make two hands chief minister ha yes
everyone make two hands chief minister ha yes
everyone should win in life
everyone should win in life
everyone should win in life
we ​​are not the only ones who win every one
we ​​are not the only ones who win every one
we ​​are not the only ones who win every one
everyone should win ha take one hand
everyone should win ha take one hand
everyone should win ha take one hand
left hand down make right hand
left hand down make right hand
left hand down make right hand
like this this mudra this is
like this this mudra this is
like this this mudra this is
called Vishnu mudra bend your index
called Vishnu mudra bend your index
called Vishnu mudra bend your index
finger and middle finger just bring touch
finger and middle finger just bring touch
finger and middle finger just bring touch
to the thumb
to the thumb
to the thumb
slowly keep it next to the nose
slowly keep it next to the nose
slowly keep it next to the nose
close your left nostril now slowly exhale from your right
close your left nostril now slowly exhale from your right
close your left nostril now slowly exhale from your right
nostril slowly deeply
nostril slowly deeply
nostril slowly deeply
please close your
please close your
please close your
eyes again inhale with right nostril
eyes again inhale with right nostril
eyes again inhale with right nostril
then close  Open your right nostril
then close  Open your right nostril
then close  Open your right nostril
then exhale from your left nostril again
then exhale from your left nostril again
slowly inhale from your left
slowly inhale from your left
slowly inhale from your left
nostril
deeply fill your chest
deeply fill your chest
deeply fill your chest
let inhale more and more oxygen
let inhale more and more oxygen
let inhale more and more oxygen
exhale more and more carbon
exhale more and more carbon
exhale more and more carbon
dioxide again exhale from your
dioxide again exhale from your
dioxide again exhale from your
right nostril repeat it three
times exhale slowly smooth even
times exhale slowly smooth even
times exhale slowly smooth even
and
and
and
gently no jerk between two breaths
repeat
repeat
repeat
it keep gentle smile on your face no
it keep gentle smile on your face no
it keep gentle smile on your face no
stress
this is called nadi shodhana it purifies
this is called nadi shodhana it purifies
this is called nadi shodhana it purifies
nadis it is called channel
nadis it is called channel
nadis it is called channel
purification repeat
it now slowly take your
it now slowly take your
it now slowly take your
palms down now next
palms down now next
i will show you
i will show you
i will show you
first what you are  This is what you should do,
first what you are  This is what you should do,
first what you are  This is what you should do,
not this thumb, you should close your ears, not now, I don't want to hear what you
not this thumb, you should close your ears, not now, I don't want to hear what you
not this thumb, you should close your ears, not now, I don't want to hear what you
say next,
say next,
say next,
okay, just close them like this, gently close your ears with your thumbs, then slowly close your eyes like this, now make a humming sound, hmm
okay, just close them like this, gently close your ears with your thumbs, then slowly close your eyes like this, now make a humming sound, hmm
hmm, relax, slowly bring
your palms
your palms
your palms
down, this
is called Brahmi
is called Brahmi
is called Brahmi
Pranayama, it relaxes, it comes to
Pranayama, it relaxes, it comes to
Pranayama, it relaxes, it comes to
your brain, once you start
your brain, once you start
your brain, once you start
practicing, you don't want to leave it, you see, the
practicing, you don't want to leave it, you see, the
practicing, you don't want to leave it, you see, the
chief minister, doing this pranayama, he
chief minister, doing this pranayama, he
became absorbed in himself, so much coolness,
became absorbed in himself, so much coolness,
became absorbed in himself, so much coolness,
so much calmness, this pranayama gives, so that in the
so much calmness, this pranayama gives, so that in the
so much calmness, this pranayama gives, so that in the
midst of so much pressure, by
midst of so much pressure, by
midst of so much pressure, by
doing this pranayama, the great strength of this country, I say, yoga, yoga,
doing this pranayama, the great strength of this country, I say, yoga, yoga,
doing this pranayama, the great strength of this country, I say, yoga, yoga,
this is yoga,
this is yoga,
this is yoga,
yoga, Kashmir, the head, the Himalayan
yoga, Kashmir, the head, the Himalayan
yoga, Kashmir, the head, the Himalayan
ranges, the arms, the Vindhyas, the waist.
ranges, the arms, the Vindhyas, the waist.
ranges, the arms, the Vindhyas, the waist.
Kanyakumari, the foot pair I have placed all over
Kanyakumari, the foot pair I have placed all over
Kanyakumari, the foot pair I have placed all over
India, this is the same yoga, this is India, the world,
India, this is the same yoga, this is India, the world,
India, this is the same yoga, this is India, the world,
India will become the world guru. We should appreciate it.
India will become the world guru. We should appreciate it.
Today, the entire world is 196
Today, the entire world is 196
Today, the entire world is 196
countries.
countries.
countries.
We are all Vipassan. Let's
We are all Vipassan. Let's
We are all Vipassan. Let's
say hi once. How many people should say it? Raise your
say hi once. How many people should say it? Raise your
say hi once. How many people should say it? Raise your
hand and say hi.
hand and say hi.
hand and say hi.
Okay, are you ready? All the cabinet
Okay, are you ready? All the cabinet
Okay, are you ready? All the cabinet
ministers are here. One more time, will you? I'm okay. With action. With action.
ministers are here. One more time, will you? I'm okay. With action. With action.
[Music] Ooo ooo aii ioo ooo au one more time, are you ready? Look at this. Aaanand. Aaab. There is no joy in saying CD. There is a lot of joy in Kannada. Another time, chi chi tu chhe chhe make action chhe chow chow. [Laughter]
I am learning
Kannada. Okay now,
Kannada. Okay now,
Kannada. Okay now,
Bipasha Basu. Want to do some posters. Please come to the
Bipasha Basu. Want to do some posters. Please come to the
front in five minutes.  Minutes we
front in five minutes.  Minutes we
front in five minutes.  Minutes we
will finish
okay you can follow this too now are you
okay you can follow this too now are you
okay you can follow this too now are you
looking in front of you Abhipasha Basu is
looking in front of you Abhipasha Basu is
looking in front of you Abhipasha Basu is
also doing please please stand up
also doing please please stand up
also doing please please stand up
last year Shilpa Shetty
last year Shilpa Shetty
last year Shilpa Shetty
came and the purpose of her call was for the Yogaratna
came and the purpose of her call was for the Yogaratna
came and the purpose of her call was for the Yogaratna
Awards our
Awards our
Awards our
esteemed Sadananda Gowda had come for that
esteemed Sadananda Gowda had come for that
we have invited yogas from all over the country from different fields and honored them
we have invited yogas from all over the country from different fields and honored them
we have invited yogas from all over the country from different fields and honored them
he had come for that today
he had come for that today
he had come for that today
only fitness is like six pack till where do
only fitness is like six pack till where do
only fitness is like six pack till where do
you have a pack of cigarettes till then
you have a pack of cigarettes till then
you have a pack of cigarettes till then
six pack has not come so
six pack has not come so
six pack has not come so
we just now this is called
we just now this is called
we just now this is called
triangle portion stand up turn
triangle portion stand up turn
triangle portion stand up turn
your
your
your
right foot left foot left side raise
right foot left foot left side raise
right foot left foot left side raise
your arms at shoulder level slowly exhale go down go down
your arms at shoulder level slowly exhale go down go down
your arms at shoulder level slowly exhale go down go down
catch your
catch your
catch your
left ankle look up look up try to
left ankle look up look up try to
left ankle look up look up try to
touch your right right finger tips  To the
touch your right right finger tips  To the
touch your right right finger tips  To the
sky Look up Look up Look up the sky Breathe in Breathe out
sky Look up Look up Look up the sky Breathe in Breathe out
sky Look up Look up Look up the sky Breathe in Breathe out
Inhale and
Inhale and
Inhale and
exhale again Inhale Come up Now Change
exhale again Inhale Come up Now Change
exhale again Inhale Come up Now Change
it Left foot Left side Now slowly
it Left foot Left side Now slowly
it Left foot Left side Now slowly
lean towards your left side
lean towards your left side
lean towards your left side
Right side Look up Look up Breathe out Breathe in Look up Inhale Come up
Right side Look up Look up Breathe out Breathe in Look up Inhale Come up
Now slowly join again Jump Now
Now slowly join again Jump Now
slowly turn your right foot Right side Left foot
slowly turn your right foot Right side Left foot
slowly turn your right foot Right side Left foot
Left side Like this Like this Not like this Even also this
Left side Like this Like this Not like this Even also this
is called asana
is called asana
Hanumanasana Look at
Hanumanasana Look at
Hanumanasana Look at
me
Excel Hang want Hange make happy
Excel Hang want Hange make happy
Excel Hang want Hange make happy
Celebrate
Celebrate
Celebrate
Inhale Come up again Exhale Go
Inhale Come up again Exhale Go
Inhale Come up again Exhale Go
down Meghalagi Hanuman  Inhale Exhale
down Meghalagi Hanuman  Inhale Exhale
down Meghalagi Hanuman  Inhale Exhale
Come up Repeat it
Relax
Relax
Relax
now Feet parallel Feet parallel a little bit
now Feet parallel Feet parallel a little bit
now Feet parallel Feet parallel a little bit
Inhale Raise your arms
Inhale Raise your arms
Inhale Raise your arms
Stretch it Interlock your fingers
Stretch it Interlock your fingers
Stretch it Interlock your fingers
Inhale Stretch your arms Turn
Inhale Stretch your arms Turn
Inhale Stretch your arms Turn
palms over space Slowly Stand on
palms over space Slowly Stand on
palms over space Slowly Stand on
your toes Stretch it Look up
your toes Stretch it Look up
your toes Stretch it Look up
Stretch your whole body from the tip
Stretch your whole body from the tip
Stretch your whole body from the tip
of the toes to the finger tips
of the toes to the finger tips
of the toes to the finger tips
Relax now Release your hands Now
Relax now Release your hands Now
Relax now Release your hands Now
slowly bend your knees Come to this posture
slowly bend your knees Come to this posture
slowly bend your knees Come to this posture
This is called Chair Pose
This is called Chair Pose
This is called Chair Pose
Utkatasana If you want to be a chairman Practice
Utkatasana If you want to be a chairman Practice
Utkatasana If you want to be a chairman Practice
this asana You will get chairman
this asana You will get chairman
this asana You will get chairman
You will be a chairman Chair plus man
You will be a chairman Chair plus man
You will be a chairman Chair plus man
equal to
equal to
equal to
chairman This is not five years You
chairman This is not five years You
chairman This is not five years You
can do this for any number of years Who is the
can do this for any number of years Who is the
can do this for any number of years Who is the
competitor for this  No one will steal this chair.
competitor for this  No one will steal this chair.
competitor for this  No one will steal this chair.
Repeat
Repeat
Repeat
it again. It gives a lot of strength.
You
You
You
exercise builds the muscles. Yoga
exercise builds the muscles. Yoga
exercise builds the muscles. Yoga
builds the mind. We do not build the body. We build the mind.
builds the mind. We do not build the body. We build the mind.
builds the mind. We do not build the body. We build the mind.
We
We
We
slowly stretch it. Don't go to let out the
gas. Don't
gas. Don't
gas. Don't
excel.
excel.
excel.
Release your gases. Keep
Release your gases. Keep
Release your gases. Keep
smiling. Always have the same fresh, green breath. The
smiling. Always have the same fresh, green breath. The
Chief Ministers of our state are waving their hands everywhere.
Chief Ministers of our state are waving their hands everywhere.
Chief Ministers of our state are waving their hands everywhere.
Where are you? I am asking
Where are you? I am asking
Where are you? I am asking
Mr. Ananth Kumar
Mr. Ananth Kumar
Mr. Ananth Kumar
ji and Sadananda Goud ji. Please come up.
ji and Sadananda Goud ji. Please come up.
ji and Sadananda Goud ji. Please come up.
Please come up. Chief Ministers. Let them be like that. Let
Please come up. Chief Ministers. Let them be like that. Let
Please come up. Chief Ministers. Let them be like that. Let
them be the watch. Our UT Khader.
them be the watch. Our UT Khader.
them be the watch. Our UT Khader.
Please join us for a
Please join us for a
Please join us for a
minute. Let all of us join.
minute. Let all of us join.
minute. Let all of us join.
DK. Come. I will tell you simply. No
DK. Come. I will tell you simply. No
DK. Come. I will tell you simply. No
tough. Only fit. Come here.
tough. Only fit. Come here.
Okay. Okay.
Okay. Okay.
Okay. Okay.
Simple. Jogging. First. Command. Jogging.
Simple. Jogging. First. Command. Jogging.
Simple. Jogging. First. Command. Jogging.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Please. Simple. Simple.  So command do
Please. Simple. Simple.  So command do
Please. Simple. Simple.  So command do
your own capacity otherwise you
your own capacity otherwise you
your own capacity otherwise you
will never get up more tomorrow do your
will never get up more tomorrow do your
will never get up more tomorrow do your
own capacity
everyone should do it who is not standing
everyone should do it who is not standing
everyone should do it who is not standing
command audience that's the spirit lovely energy
command audience that's the spirit lovely energy
command audience that's the spirit lovely energy
good going guys superb
good going guys superb
good going guys superb
command is
hing hey
[music]
loosen your all joints relax relax
loosen your all joints relax relax
relax place your left palm
relax place your left palm
relax place your left palm
of the chest right palm of the stomach
of the chest right palm of the stomach
of the chest right palm of the stomach
observe your breath is very
observe your breath is very
observe your breath is very
powerful minister our power real power
powerful minister our power real power
powerful minister our power real power
star DK Shivakumar made this
star DK Shivakumar made this
star DK Shivakumar made this
hummus few days good post
hummus few days good post
hummus few days good post
going on he is spreading Kannada fame all over the
going on he is spreading Kannada fame all over the
going on he is spreading Kannada fame all over the
country
close your eyes just observe your breath
if
if
if
your chest is moving it means something
your chest is moving it means something
your chest is moving it means something
is problem let  Your stomach
is problem let  Your stomach
is problem let  Your stomach
moves because when you inhale, the
moves because when you inhale, the
moves because when you inhale, the
lungs go up. The lungs do not have a diaphragm. They
lungs go up. The lungs do not have a diaphragm. They
lungs go up. The lungs do not have a diaphragm. They
move down. The stomach comes
move down. The stomach comes
move down. The stomach comes
forward. Okay, arms
forward. Okay, arms
forward. Okay, arms
up. Will you do this? It's a kind of
up. Will you do this? It's a kind of
up. Will you do this? It's a kind of
pranayama. It invokes fire. You will never get
pranayama. It invokes fire. You will never get
pranayama. It invokes fire. You will never get
digestive problems. So your
digestive problems. So your
digestive problems. So your
stomach, epigastrium, liver,
stomach, epigastrium, liver,
stomach, epigastrium, liver,
small intestine, large intestine, I will get
small intestine, large intestine, I will get
small intestine, large intestine, I will get
stronger and stronger. Okay,
stronger and stronger. Okay,
stronger and stronger. Okay,
just follow.
just follow.
just follow.
[Music] Is there any
[Music] Is there any
[Music] Is there any
sound coming from the audience? The teachers are making
sound coming from the audience? The teachers are making
sound coming from the audience? The teachers are making
sound. It should come. Do this.
sound. It should come. Do this.
[Music]
Relax,
Relax,
Relax,
relax, just observe your breath.
relax, just observe your breath.
relax, just observe your breath.
Just observe your breath. Today, especially,
Just observe your breath. Today, especially,
Just observe your breath. Today, especially,
another Hollywood actress, Henrietta, she
another Hollywood actress, Henrietta, she
another Hollywood actress, Henrietta, she
came from all over London.
came from all over London.
came from all over London.
Have a big clap to you.
Have a big clap to you.
Have a big clap to you.
Her the whole world is here the whole world is
Her the whole world is here the whole world is
Her the whole world is here the whole world is
here this is
here this is
here this is
yoga your left no still take your
yoga your left no still take your
yoga your left no still take your
right arm up
right arm up
right arm up
right arm
up change it
[music]
relax slowly line
relax slowly line
relax slowly line
stomach s it's ok nothing will
stomach s it's ok nothing will
stomach s it's ok nothing will
happen to you come little this side you come
happen to you come little this side you come
happen to you come little this side you come
this side
this side
this side
ha edit sahebre
ha edit sahebre
ha edit sahebre
come here see how active they are
come here see how active they are
come here see how active they are
that's hummus at this age hummus should come
that's hummus at this age hummus should come
that's hummus at this age hummus should come
slowly go down touch
slowly go down touch
slowly go down touch
your forehead to the ground this
your forehead to the ground this
your forehead to the ground this
mother this earth mother our
mother this earth mother our
mother this earth mother our
god inhale slowly lift your head lift
god inhale slowly lift your head lift
god inhale slowly lift your head lift
your chest press your palms
your chest press your palms
your chest press your palms
down look up look up
bhujangasana
bhujangasana
bhujangasana
bhujangasana who can't do it standing
bhujangasana who can't do it standing
bhujangasana who can't do it standing
please gurus show me bhujangasana
please gurus show me bhujangasana
please gurus show me bhujangasana
on the ground
on the ground
on the ground
please now all the news channels are live
please now all the news channels are live
please now all the news channels are live
its a live telecast every one should
its a live telecast every one should
its a live telecast every one should
do  It Elro on the ground slowly come down
do  It Elro on the ground slowly come down
do  It Elro on the ground slowly come down
repeat it inhale again one more
repeat it inhale again one more
repeat it inhale again one more
time
now slowly come down come to the Vajrasana
now slowly come down come to the Vajrasana
now slowly come down come to the Vajrasana
Vajrasana sitting posture Vajrasana
Vajrasana sitting posture Vajrasana
Vajrasana sitting posture Vajrasana
Vajrasana
Vajrasana
Vajrasana
Thunder Bold Posture There are two nadis in our body
Thunder Bold Posture There are two nadis in our body
Thunder Bold Posture There are two nadis in our body
72000 nadis out of which two
72000 nadis out of which two
72000 nadis out of which two
important nadis are Vajra nadis they
important nadis are Vajra nadis they
important nadis are Vajra nadis they
are below our buttocks it activates
are below our buttocks it activates
are below our buttocks it activates
your Vajra nadi in this
your Vajra nadi in this
your Vajra nadi in this
its called in
its called in
its called in
physiology its called vagus nerve which
physiology its called vagus nerve which
physiology its called vagus nerve which
is directly control your heart
is directly control your heart
is directly control your heart
beat and blood pressure if you sit every
beat and blood pressure if you sit every
beat and blood pressure if you sit every
day atleast five minutes you will never get high
day atleast five minutes you will never get high
day atleast five minutes you will never get high
BP
ok please all the media people please help us ha
ok please all the media people please help us ha
ok please all the media people please help us ha
ok stand up we will
ok stand up we will
ok stand up we will
do suryanamaskara  Are you ready Are you ready
do suryanamaskara  Are you ready Are you ready
do suryanamaskara  Are you ready Are you ready
Come to the first pose
Okay First
Okay First
Okay First
one Pranamasana Inhale Come up Inhale Raise
one Pranamasana Inhale Come up Inhale Raise
one Pranamasana Inhale Come up Inhale Raise
your arms a little Lean a little bit back Look
your arms a little Lean a little bit back Look
your arms a little Lean a little bit back Look
the
the
the
sky Urdhva Hastasana Slowly Bend forward Slowly
sky Urdhva Hastasana Slowly Bend forward Slowly
sky Urdhva Hastasana Slowly Bend forward Slowly
Take your palms on the
Take your palms on the
Take your palms on the
ground Try to touch your forehead to the knee
ground Try to touch your forehead to the knee
ground Try to touch your forehead to the knee
Slowly Take your right leg back
Slowly Take your right leg back
Slowly Take your right leg back
This is called Right leg back Look
This is called Right leg back Look
This is called Right leg back Look
up This is called Horse pose Ashwa
up This is called Horse pose Ashwa
up This is called Horse pose Ashwa
Sanchalanasana You will get power like a horse Oh
Khanese Power Nahi Ata Ae Karnese Power Ata Hai
Khanese Power Nahi Ata Ae Karnese Power Ata Hai
Khanese Power Nahi Ata Ae Karnese Power Ata Hai
Palms Press your palms Now Slowly
Palms Press your palms Now Slowly
Palms Press your palms Now Slowly
Take your left foot back
Take your left foot back
Take your left foot back
Stand on your toes and palms
Stand on your toes and palms
Stand on your toes and palms
press it Look front This is called
press it Look front This is called
press it Look front This is called
Danda
Asana  Now slowly bring your knees to the
Asana  Now slowly bring your knees to the
Asana  Now slowly bring your knees to the
ground Now slowly go to the Ashtanga
ground Now slowly go to the Ashtanga
ground Now slowly go to the Ashtanga
Namaskara Chest Chin to the
Namaskara Chest Chin to the
Namaskara Chest Chin to the
ground Chin Chest Knees and finger tip Tip
ground Chin Chest Knees and finger tip Tip
ground Chin Chest Knees and finger tip Tip
of the toes Inhale Slowly Come
of the toes Inhale Slowly Come
of the toes Inhale Slowly Come
up Bhujangasana
Then slowly go down Go back Try to
Then slowly go down Go back Try to
Then slowly go down Go back Try to
touch your heel to the ground This is
touch your heel to the ground This is
touch your heel to the ground This is
called Mountain
Pose Exhale Try to touch your head to
Pose Exhale Try to touch your head to
Pose Exhale Try to touch your head to
the ground Do not lift your
the ground Do not lift your
the ground Do not lift your
heel Now slowly take your right leg
heel Now slowly take your right leg
heel Now slowly take your right leg
front Right leg front again Slowly take
front Right leg front again Slowly take
your left
your left
your left
foot front Try to touch your forehead
foot front Try to touch your forehead
foot front Try to touch your forehead
to the knees Pada Hastasana
to the knees Pada Hastasana
to the knees Pada Hastasana
Inhale
Look
Look
Look
up Exhale Slowly Come to the join
up Exhale Slowly Come to the join
up Exhale Slowly Come to the join
Palms Heart Center Its half round
Palms Heart Center Its half round
Palms Heart Center Its half round
Will conclude this with another half
Will conclude this with another half
Will conclude this with another half
round ok again come to the
round ok again come to the
round ok again come to the
center inhale
center inhale
center inhale
look
look
look
up see the
up see the
up see the
cloud exhale
cloud exhale
cloud exhale
exhale aha what a pleasure it is
exhale aha what a pleasure it is
exhale aha what a pleasure it is
try to touch your forehead to
try to touch your forehead to
try to touch your forehead to
the knee now take your left foot back
the knee now take your left foot back
the knee now take your left foot back
now left foot
back now slowly take your right foot
back now slowly take your right foot
back now slowly take your right foot
back try to stand on your toes
back try to stand on your toes
back try to stand on your toes
palms look
front now again ashtanga namaskara
now slowly inhale
now slowly inhale
now slowly inhale
bhujangasana snake and pose you will never get back a now
bhujangasana snake and pose you will never get back a now
bhujangasana snake and pose you will never get back a now
days people are
days people are
days people are
getting back a very engaged again go
getting back a very engaged again go
getting back a very engaged again go
to the downward
to the downward
to the downward
dog it improves your memory power you
dog it improves your memory power you
dog it improves your memory power you
will be like mountain always in the
will be like mountain always in the
will be like mountain always in the
top now slowly take your left  Foot
top now slowly take your left  Foot
top now slowly take your left  Foot
front
Right foot front Touch to the fore Head to
Right foot front Touch to the fore Head to
Right foot front Touch to the fore Head to
the nine Heal Look up
Take your palms back Exhale Relax
Take your palms back Exhale Relax
Take your palms back Exhale Relax
Relax Chapati
Relax Chapati
Relax Chapati
Do you like it
Do you like it
Do you like it
Massage all the internal organs You
Massage all the internal organs You
Massage all the internal organs You
will be always young Energetic and
will be always young Energetic and
will be always young Energetic and
powerful
powerful
powerful
Massage all the internal organs Like
Massage all the internal organs Like
Massage all the internal organs Like
Liver Stomach Small Intestine Large
Liver Stomach Small Intestine Large
Liver Stomach Small Intestine Large
Intestine Kidney You will never get old
Intestine Kidney You will never get old
Intestine Kidney You will never get old
You will be always young Like
You will be always young Like
You will be always young Like
Naicker and
Naicker and
Naicker and
Nanamala Okay now please I ask
All the dignitaries
All the dignitaries
All the dignitaries
Please have a seat Now I request
Please have a seat Now I request
Please have a seat Now I request
Mrs. Vipaasa Basu to speak few words
Mrs. Vipaasa Basu to speak few words
Mrs. Vipaasa Basu to speak few words
Bangalore Loud applause should come for
Bangalore Loud applause should come for
Bangalore Loud applause should come for
Mrs. Bipasha
Mrs. Bipasha
Mrs. Bipasha
[Appreciation]
[Appreciation]
[Appreciation]
Vasu Namaskar Bangalore
Good
Good
Good
morning It's lovely to be here  To see all these
morning It's lovely to be here  To see all these
morning It's lovely to be here  To see all these
bright enthusiastic faces
bright enthusiastic faces
bright enthusiastic faces
celebrating yoga on International Yoga
celebrating yoga on International Yoga
celebrating yoga on International Yoga
Day i am sure that we all know about the
Day i am sure that we all know about the
Day i am sure that we all know about the
benefits of yoga how important it is
benefits of yoga how important it is
benefits of yoga how important it is
and it's all all from india the roots
and it's all all from india the roots
and it's all all from india the roots
of yoga are right here we kind of forgot
of yoga are right here we kind of forgot
of yoga are right here we kind of forgot
it for couple of years but now it's
it for couple of years but now it's
it for couple of years but now it's
coming back especially the youth i think
coming back especially the youth i think
coming back especially the youth i think
as youth it's very important for you to
as youth it's very important for you to
as youth it's very important for you to
understand how beneficial yoga is it not
understand how beneficial yoga is it not
understand how beneficial yoga is it not
only makes  your body strong and flexible
only makes  your body strong and flexible
only makes  your body strong and flexible
you know it brings peace and clarity to
you know it brings peace and clarity to
you know it brings peace and clarity to
your mind so whatever you want to do in
your mind so whatever you want to do in
your mind so whatever you want to do in
life or achieve you are going to do
life or achieve you are going to do
life or achieve you are going to do
better if you practice yoga on an every
better if you practice yoga on an every
better if you practice yoga on an every
day basis
day basis
day basis
you know so multiple benefits of yoga
you know so multiple benefits of yoga
you know so multiple benefits of yoga
and i really have to say that i really
and i really have to say that i really
and i really have to say that i really
enjoyed you know practicing a bit of it
enjoyed you know practicing a bit of it
enjoyed you know practicing a bit of it
with all the ministers present out here
with all the ministers present out here
with all the ministers present out here
it sends out a beautiful example you
it sends out a beautiful example you
it sends out a beautiful example you
know because they are the people who are
know because they are the people who are
know because they are the people who are
handling us and the city and the state
handling us and the city and the state
handling us and the city and the state
and if they are you know they are doing
and if they are you know they are doing
and if they are you know they are doing
yoga  physically physically they are fit
yoga  physically physically they are fit
yoga  physically physically they are fit
mentally they are fit so we are in very
mentally they are fit so we are in very
mentally they are fit so we are in very
capable hands so you guys have to learn
capable hands so you guys have to learn
capable hands so you guys have to learn
from all of them and and wish all of
from all of them and and wish all of
from all of them and and wish all of
you best of luck and keep
you best of luck and keep
you best of luck and keep
practicing yoga spread the message that
practicing yoga spread the message that
practicing yoga spread the message that
you need to do yoga every day and thank
you need to do yoga every day and thank
you need to do yoga every day and thank
you guruji thank you swamiji for
you guruji thank you swamiji for
you guruji thank you swamiji for
having me here it was a great
having me here it was a great
having me here it was a great
honor thank you love you all mam but we have
honor thank you love you all mam but we have
honor thank you love you all mam but we have
one final request since morning
one final request since morning
one final request since morning
they have been waiting to just get
they have been waiting to just get
they have been waiting to just get
a glimpse of vipasha basu
a glimpse of vipasha basu
a glimpse of vipasha basu
smile and one beautiful fly case all the
smile and one beautiful fly case all the
smile and one beautiful fly case all the
guys out there are dying to get a
guys out there are dying to get a
guys out there are dying to get a
fly case so don't wait
also one more thing i forgot actually later sorry sorry later we
also one more thing i forgot actually later sorry sorry later we
also one more thing i forgot actually later sorry sorry later we
will have a
will have a
will have a
selfie are you
selfie are you
selfie are you
ready  Selfie Selfie Selfie Okay with every one
ready  Selfie Selfie Selfie Okay with every one
ready  Selfie Selfie Selfie Okay with every one
Probably this way with Bipasha
Probably this way with Bipasha
Probably this way with Bipasha
mam Okay once like is to all your
mam Okay once like is to all your
mam Okay once like is to all your
fans out there please
fans out there please
fans out there please
thank you mam really made there day
thank you mam really made there day
thank you mam really made there day
thank you so much and now we will have
thank you so much and now we will have
thank you so much and now we will have
a selfie with Bipasha mam with all the
a selfie with Bipasha mam with all the
a selfie with Bipasha mam with all the
fans from
Bangalore you want your
phone when we take the selfie all hands
phone when we take the selfie all hands
phone when we take the selfie all hands
up in the air guys this way single
hand selfie with CM are you ready one
hand selfie with CM are you ready one
hand selfie with CM are you ready one
second okay alla hatra
bandhbidi hatra bandhbidi
bandhbidi hatra bandhbidi
bandhbidi hatra bandhbidi
you don't have to be seen in the photo
you don't have to be seen in the photo
you don't have to be seen in the photo
wave your
wave your
wave your
hands hands up there please
hands hands up there please
hands hands up there please
ready three to one
[praise]
[praise]
[praise]
cheese thank you
one more time three to one set cheese
take
CM Come here for a minute, sir. Come here,
CM Come here for a minute, sir. Come here,
CM Come here for a minute, sir. Come here,
sir. Bipasha please come. Please come. Bipasha Bipasha
sir. Bipasha please come. Please come. Bipasha Bipasha
sir. Bipasha please come. Please come. Bipasha Bipasha
please come. One minute, one
minute. Thank you, sir.
minute. Thank you, sir.
minute. Thank you, sir.
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Thank you. Loud applause.
Thank you. Loud applause.
Thank you. Loud applause.
Everyone is now being thanked.
Everyone is now being thanked.
Everyone is now being thanked.
Vachanananda
Vachanananda
Vachanananda
Swamy is the breather. Shriyut Siddaramaiah Sir, the Honorable
Swamy is the breather. Shriyut Siddaramaiah Sir, the Honorable
Swamy is the breather. Shriyut Siddaramaiah Sir, the Honorable
Chief Minister, the Government of Karnataka, congratulates the Honorable
Chief Minister, the Government of Karnataka, congratulates the Honorable
Chief Minister, the Government of Karnataka, congratulates the Honorable
Chief Minister for
Chief Minister for
Chief Minister for
coming today as the inaugurator for the International Yoga Day 2016 and for making this program a
coming today as the inaugurator for the International Yoga Day 2016 and for making this program a
coming today as the inaugurator for the International Yoga Day 2016 and for making this program a
success. On behalf of everyone, the
success. On behalf of everyone, the
success. On behalf of everyone, the
Honorable Minister, the Minister of Health and Family
Honorable Minister, the Minister of Health and Family
Honorable Minister, the Minister of Health and Family
Welfare, should take a moment to thank
Welfare, should take a moment to thank
Welfare, should take a moment to thank
everyone. I hereby
everyone. I hereby
everyone. I hereby
request the Honorable Chief Minister, the
request the Honorable Chief Minister, the
request the Honorable Chief Minister, the
Honorable Health Minister, and the Union
Honorable Health Minister, and the Union
Honorable Health Minister, and the Union
Ministers, to thank everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, thank
Thank you, Henriette, you should give a
Thank you, Henriette, you should give a
Thank you, Henriette, you should give a
big round of applause.
big round of applause.
big round of applause.
Please give a big thank you to breathing guru Vachanananda Swami. Above all, thank you to the audience who
Please give a big thank you to breathing guru Vachanananda Swami. Above all, thank you to the audience who
came to this program and made the program
came to this program and made the program
came to this program and made the program
more enjoyable. Thank you so much to everyone
more enjoyable. Thank you so much to everyone
more enjoyable. Thank you so much to everyone
and happy
and happy
and happy
International Yoga once again. Have a
International Yoga once again. Have a
International Yoga once again. Have a
good day. Take care.
Greetings to all journalists and media. The
Greetings to all journalists and media. The
Greetings to all journalists and media. The
second International Yoga Day was
second International Yoga Day was
second International Yoga Day was
successfully celebrated in Bangalore as well.
successfully celebrated in Bangalore as well.
Yoga was practiced under the leadership of breathing guru Shri Vachanananda Swamiji at the Rava Stadium in Bangalore. Bollywood's famous
Yoga was practiced under the leadership of breathing guru Shri Vachanananda Swamiji at the Rava Stadium in Bangalore. Bollywood's famous
Yoga was practiced under the leadership of breathing guru Shri Vachanananda Swamiji at the Rava Stadium in Bangalore. Bollywood's famous
actress Bipasha Basu, Hollywood actress
actress Bipasha Basu, Hollywood actress
actress Bipasha Basu, Hollywood actress
Henriette, Chief Minister Siddaramaiah,
Henriette, Chief Minister Siddaramaiah,
Henriette, Chief Minister Siddaramaiah,
Union Ministers Ananth Kumar and
Union Ministers Ananth Kumar and
Union Ministers Ananth Kumar and
Sadananda Gowda, among others,
Sadananda Gowda, among others,
Sadananda Gowda, among others,
participated in this program and made this program a
participated in this program and made this program a
participated in this program and made this program a
success. To all the Gayatri
success. To all the Gayatri
success. To all the Gayatri
Parivar people, they are the volunteers, they have
Parivar people, they are the volunteers, they have
Parivar people, they are the volunteers, they have
organized very well.  Hey, all the
organized very well.  Hey, all the
organized very well.  Hey, all the
Gayatri family, loud applause. After the snack,
Gayatri family, loud applause. After the snack,
we have arranged for you to have some snack there.
we have arranged for you to have some snack there.
we have arranged for you to have some snack there.
Everyone please have bread.

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 3 =====

Kind: captions
Language: en
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Balance, harmony, inner peace and
Balance, harmony, inner peace and
Balance, harmony, inner peace and
happiness.
happiness.
happiness.
Yoga transcends
Yoga transcends
Yoga transcends
religious, geographical, ethnic, and
religious, geographical, ethnic, and
religious, geographical, ethnic, and
racial boundaries.  It helps us to be healthier,
racial boundaries.  It helps us to be healthier,
racial boundaries.  It helps us to be healthier,
calmer and more in harmony,
calmer and more in harmony,
calmer and more in harmony,
creating a more sustainable and
creating a more sustainable and
creating a more sustainable and
peaceful planet.
But what exactly is yoga and how is it
But what exactly is yoga and how is it
But what exactly is yoga and how is it
practiced?   It
practiced?   It
practiced?   It
can truly create harmony between
can truly create harmony between
can truly create harmony between
our deepest self and
our deepest self and
our deepest self and
nature.
nature.
nature.
Join us on this journey through yoga.
Join us on this journey through yoga.
Join us on this journey through yoga.
[Music] I
[Music] I
[Music] I
was always sick, always, I don't know
was always sick, always, I don't know
was always sick, always, I don't know
why.  I decided to quit my job and
why.  I decided to quit my job and
why.  I decided to quit my job and
practice yoga.  And now I feel that my
practice yoga.  And now I feel that my
practice yoga.  And now I feel that my
life has more color and more meaning.  This
life has more color and more meaning.  This
life has more color and more meaning.  This
is the eighth time I've come to the
is the eighth time I've come to the
is the eighth time I've come to the
international yoga festival.  I come to study
international yoga festival.  I come to study
international yoga festival.  I come to study
with the teachers and professors, to
with the teachers and professors, to
with the teachers and professors, to
learn how to study, to grow, to
learn how to study, to grow, to
learn how to study, to grow, to
evolve.  Yoga for us
evolve.  Yoga for us
evolve.  Yoga for us
means
means
means
unity, love and inner peace.  When I
unity, love and inner peace.  When I
unity, love and inner peace.  When I
was studying I got sick, then
was studying I got sick, then
was studying I got sick, then
I discovered yoga and started
I discovered yoga and started
I discovered yoga and started
practicing it.  I made a full recovery and am
practicing it.  I made a full recovery and am
practicing it.  I made a full recovery and am
now in better health than before.  It
now in better health than before.  It
now in better health than before.  It
surprised me a lot and made me
surprised me a lot and made me
surprised me a lot and made me
very interested in
very interested in
very interested in
yoga.  But where did it all begin?
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
evવનઇન વેનેઝુએ thisસ timeામવીર
evવનઇન વેનેઝુએ thisસ timeામવીર
evવનઇન વેનેઝુએ thisસ timeામવીર
સેલબ્રટંગઇનગ્રન્ડરસ્કેલ એઇનમોર નબર
સેલબ્રટંગઇનગ્રન્ડરસ્કેલ એઇનમોર નબર
સેલબ્રટંગઇનગ્રન્ડરસ્કેલ એઇનમોર નબર
ofફસીટી days ago i  was in marakકai where
ofફસીટી days ago i  was in marakકai where
ofફસીટી days ago i  was in marakકai where
weહ a very bગ celebrationન we are also
weહ a very bગ celebrationન we are also
weહ a very bગ celebrationન we are also
celebrating in marakai in mer inana and
celebrating in marakai in mer inana and
celebrating in marakai in mer inana and
other
other
other
cties time f very f it was only it feels
cties time f very f it was only it feels
cties time f very f it was only it feels
like only some time ag
like only some time ag
like only some time ag
[Music]
intermela con  carnapidana, cover your
intermela con  carnapidana, cover your
intermela con  carnapidana, cover your
ears with your
ears with your
ears with your
knees or you can also rest your
knees or you can also rest your
knees or you can also rest your
knees on your
knees on your
knees on your
forehead.  Your
forehead.  Your
forehead.  Your
floating ribs, hollow out your
floating ribs, hollow out your
floating ribs, hollow out your
abdomen, activate your love handles.
abdomen, activate your love handles.
abdomen, activate your love handles.
Tada the mountain's posture
Tada the mountain's posture
Tada the mountain's posture
.
.
.
Inhale, hands towards the sky in
Inhale, hands towards the sky in
Inhale, hands towards the sky in
urba, exhale down in
urba, exhale down in
urba, exhale down in
utanasana.  Inhale, look ahead.
utanasana.  Inhale, look ahead.
utanasana.  Inhale, look ahead.
Ardautanasana.  Exhale, right leg
Ardautanasana.  Exhale, right leg
Ardautanasana.  Exhale, right leg
back in
back in
back in
corridor and stay there.  Open your
corridor and stay there.  Open your
corridor and stay there.  Open your
chest.  Inhale.  Look at your hands.
chest.  Inhale.  Look at your hands.
chest.  Inhale.  Look at your hands.
Right foot between hands.  Left, I'll
Right foot between hands.  Left, I'll
Right foot between hands.  Left, I'll
accompany you.  Inhale, open your
accompany you.  Inhale, open your
accompany you.  Inhale, open your
chest, exhale.
Go, inhale,
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
we're going up.
Exhale, exhale.  Bend your knees and press
Exhale, exhale.  Bend your knees and press
Exhale, exhale.  Bend your knees and press
your hands against the floor.  Inhaling, enter
your hands against the floor.  Inhaling, enter
your hands against the floor.  Inhaling, enter
nutcatas.  Exhale.  Va utanas.  You can
nutcatas.  Exhale.  Va utanas.  You can
nutcatas.  Exhale.  Va utanas.  You can
raise your feet towards the sky.  You move your
raise your feet towards the sky.  You move your
raise your feet towards the sky.  You move your
hands towards your back.
[Music]
This posture works our
This posture works our
This posture works our
thyroid, which is super important for our
thyroid, which is super important for our
thyroid, which is super important for our
body.  It allows the heart to work more
body.  It allows the heart to work more
body.  It allows the heart to work more
slowly, everything
slowly, everything
slowly, everything
relaxes, and the organs to cleanse themselves.
relaxes, and the organs to cleanse themselves.
relaxes, and the organs to cleanse themselves.
It is very beneficial.  Supports feet wide at the
hips.  Take a deep breath.  Exhale.  Raise
hips.  Take a deep breath.  Exhale.  Raise
hips.  Take a deep breath.  Exhale.  Raise
your hips towards the
your hips towards the
your hips towards the
sky.  Walk with your shoulders inwards
sky.  Walk with your shoulders inwards
sky.  Walk with your shoulders inwards
.  Try to unite them.
.  Try to unite them.
.  Try to unite them.
[Music]
I had the time, I did
I had the time, I did
I had the time, I did
n't have time.  I call him and
n't have time.  I call him and
n't have time.  I call him and
ask
ask
ask
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Hello Hello, how are you?  Hi how
Hello Hello, how are you?  Hi how
Hello Hello, how are you?  Hi how
are you?
are you?
are you?
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Grab the truck for the park
Grab the truck for the park
Grab the truck for the park
[Music]
as a gift.
as a gift.
as a gift.
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I know
I know
I know
and
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Laughter]
[Laughter]
[Music]
Everything is excellent, thank
Everything is excellent, thank
Everything is excellent, thank
God.  You can eat food here.
God.  You can eat food here.
God.  You can eat food here.
We have a great
We have a great
We have a great
seasoning.  Excellent.
And welcome.
[Music]
[Music]
Mother nothing Okay.

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 4 =====

Kind: captions
Language: en
the word yoga is derived from Sanskrit
the word yoga is derived from Sanskrit
the word yoga is derived from Sanskrit
and ancient Indian language it means the
and ancient Indian language it means the
and ancient Indian language it means the
union of body and mind yoga began in
union of body and mind yoga began in
union of body and mind yoga began in
India more than 3,000 years ago and is
India more than 3,000 years ago and is
India more than 3,000 years ago and is
still practiced for the help of your
still practiced for the help of your
still practiced for the help of your
mind body and soul a morning practice of
mind body and soul a morning practice of
mind body and soul a morning practice of
yoga is a great way to get energized for
yoga is a great way to get energized for
yoga is a great way to get energized for
the rest of the day embarking on the
the rest of the day embarking on the
the rest of the day embarking on the
path of yoga is your first step towards
path of yoga is your first step towards
path of yoga is your first step towards
self-discovery it's going to be a
self-discovery it's going to be a
self-discovery it's going to be a
fulfilling and a liberating experience
fulfilling and a liberating experience
fulfilling and a liberating experience
once you take the step it will reap
once you take the step it will reap
once you take the step it will reap
rewards for a lifetime in other words
rewards for a lifetime in other words
rewards for a lifetime in other words
you're doing yoga to achieve Stillness
you're doing yoga to achieve Stillness
you're doing yoga to achieve Stillness
and Clarity of mind now let's look at
and Clarity of mind now let's look at
and Clarity of mind now let's look at
some of the common problems and see how
some of the common problems and see how
some of the common problems and see how
yoga can help us overcome these
yoga can help us overcome these
yoga can help us overcome these
problems one of the common health
problems one of the common health
problems one of the common health
disorders that people suffer especially
disorders that people suffer especially
disorders that people suffer especially
women is
women is
women is
thyroid the ASA which is beneficial to
thyroid the ASA which is beneficial to
thyroid the ASA which is beneficial to
cure thyroid is called
cure thyroid is called
cure thyroid is called
WRA it not just cures thyroid it also
WRA it not just cures thyroid it also
WRA it not just cures thyroid it also
lends flexibility to the spine and
lends flexibility to the spine and
lends flexibility to the spine and
strengthens the Cal
strengthens the Cal
strengthens the Cal
muscles sit in
muscles sit in
muscles sit in
dandasana now fold your legs and sit on
dandasana now fold your legs and sit on
dandasana now fold your legs and sit on
your
your
your
heels keep the thighs close and the big
heels keep the thighs close and the big
heels keep the thighs close and the big
toes touching place the hand on the
toes touching place the hand on the
toes touching place the hand on the
knees your head should be back and
knees your head should be back and
knees your head should be back and
straight stand on your
straight stand on your
straight stand on your
knees and place the hands on the waist
knees and place the hands on the waist
knees and place the hands on the waist
with your fingers pointing
downwards bend the head back and St
downwards bend the head back and St
downwards bend the head back and St
stretch the neck muscles inhale and bend
stretch the neck muscles inhale and bend
stretch the neck muscles inhale and bend
the trunk towards as much as
possible if you can reach the heels you
possible if you can reach the heels you
possible if you can reach the heels you
can place your hands on them and bend
backwards remain in this posture for 10
backwards remain in this posture for 10
backwards remain in this posture for 10
to 30 seconds with normal
to 30 seconds with normal
to 30 seconds with normal
breathing return with inhalation sit in
breathing return with inhalation sit in
breathing return with inhalation sit in
vajrasana and
vajrasana and
vajrasana and
relax diabetes is another common disease
relax diabetes is another common disease
relax diabetes is another common disease
in men women and even children vakrasana
in men women and even children vakrasana
in men women and even children vakrasana
or the spinal twist pose is beneficial
or the spinal twist pose is beneficial
or the spinal twist pose is beneficial
in stimulating the pancreas and helps in
in stimulating the pancreas and helps in
in stimulating the pancreas and helps in
the management of
the management of
the management of
diabetes sit in
diabetes sit in
diabetes sit in
dandasana Bend the right leg and place
dandasana Bend the right leg and place
dandasana Bend the right leg and place
the right foot beside the left knee as
the right foot beside the left knee as
the right foot beside the left knee as
you exhale twist the body to the right
you exhale twist the body to the right
you exhale twist the body to the right
bring the left arm around the right knee
bring the left arm around the right knee
bring the left arm around the right knee
and clasp the right leg and and place
and clasp the right leg and and place
and clasp the right leg and and place
the Palm beside the right foot remain in
the Palm beside the right foot remain in
the Palm beside the right foot remain in
this posture for 10 to 30 seconds with
this posture for 10 to 30 seconds with
this posture for 10 to 30 seconds with
normal breathing and
relax repeat the same thing on the other
relax repeat the same thing on the other
relax repeat the same thing on the other
side depression and anxiety is caused
side depression and anxiety is caused
side depression and anxiety is caused
from the stress of working for long
from the stress of working for long
from the stress of working for long
hours lack of sleep and irregular food
hours lack of sleep and irregular food
hours lack of sleep and irregular food
habits sat basana helps relieve
habits sat basana helps relieve
habits sat basana helps relieve
depression and anxiety Bend both the
depression and anxiety Bend both the
depression and anxiety Bend both the
legs at the knees and bring the heels
legs at the knees and bring the heels
legs at the knees and bring the heels
near the buttcks
near the buttcks
near the buttcks
hold both the ankles firmly and keep the
hold both the ankles firmly and keep the
hold both the ankles firmly and keep the
knees and feet in one straight line
knees and feet in one straight line
knees and feet in one straight line
inhale slowly and raise your buttocks
inhale slowly and raise your buttocks
inhale slowly and raise your buttocks
and trunk as much as you can to form a
bridge remain in this position for 10 to
bridge remain in this position for 10 to
bridge remain in this position for 10 to
30 seconds with normal breathing
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
exhale slowly and return to the original
exhale slowly and return to the original
exhale slowly and return to the original
position and
position and
position and
relax untimely meals and quick access to
relax untimely meals and quick access to
relax untimely meals and quick access to
junk food leads to wind or
junk food leads to wind or
junk food leads to wind or
flatulence Pavan mtasa helps remove
flatulence Pavan mtasa helps remove
flatulence Pavan mtasa helps remove
constipation and gives relief from gas
constipation and gives relief from gas
constipation and gives relief from gas
decreases the bloating sensation in the
decreases the bloating sensation in the
decreases the bloating sensation in the
abdomen and also AIDS digestion lie down
abdomen and also AIDS digestion lie down
abdomen and also AIDS digestion lie down
flat on the back bend your right knee
flat on the back bend your right knee
flat on the back bend your right knee
interlock the fingers and clasp the shin
interlock the fingers and clasp the shin
interlock the fingers and clasp the shin
below the
below the
below the
knees exhale rise the head till your
knees exhale rise the head till your
knees exhale rise the head till your
chin touches the knees and
chin touches the knees and
chin touches the knees and
relax this is
relax this is
relax this is
pavanamuktasana bring the head back to
pavanamuktasana bring the head back to
pavanamuktasana bring the head back to
the ground while exhaling lower the leg
the ground while exhaling lower the leg
the ground while exhaling lower the leg
to
to
to
the repeat the same with the other leg
the repeat the same with the other leg
the repeat the same with the other leg
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
in the final position raise both your
in the final position raise both your
in the final position raise both your
legs bend your knees clasp your fingers
legs bend your knees clasp your fingers
legs bend your knees clasp your fingers
exhale and bring your nose to your knee
exhale and bring your nose to your knee
exhale and bring your nose to your knee
and hold this position for 10 to 30
and hold this position for 10 to 30
and hold this position for 10 to 30
seconds inhale push your head back
seconds inhale push your head back
seconds inhale push your head back
release your legs and
relax do you often suffer from cold
relax do you often suffer from cold
relax do you often suffer from cold
sinusitis asthma and bronchial
sinusitis asthma and bronchial
sinusitis asthma and bronchial
infections kapal Pati p ifies the
infections kapal Pati p ifies the
infections kapal Pati p ifies the
frontal air sinus and helps to overcome
frontal air sinus and helps to overcome
frontal air sinus and helps to overcome
cold disorders it also rejuvenates the
cold disorders it also rejuvenates the
cold disorders it also rejuvenates the
whole body and keeps the face young and
whole body and keeps the face young and
whole body and keeps the face young and
vibrant sit in any meditative posture
vibrant sit in any meditative posture
vibrant sit in any meditative posture
close the eyes and relax the holy
close the eyes and relax the holy
close the eyes and relax the holy
body inhale deeply through both nostrils
body inhale deeply through both nostrils
body inhale deeply through both nostrils
and expand the chest expel the breath
and expand the chest expel the breath
and expand the chest expel the breath
with forceful contractions of the
with forceful contractions of the
with forceful contractions of the
abdominal
abdominal
abdominal
muscles complete 30 rapid breaths
muscles complete 30 rapid breaths
muscles complete 30 rapid breaths
then take a deep breath and exhale
then take a deep breath and exhale
then take a deep breath and exhale
slowly and
slowly and
slowly and
relax repeat two more
relax repeat two more
relax repeat two more
rounds nadishana or anuloma pranayam is
rounds nadishana or anuloma pranayam is
rounds nadishana or anuloma pranayam is
is practiced right after kapal it helps
is practiced right after kapal it helps
is practiced right after kapal it helps
your body rejuvenate and thums
your body rejuvenate and thums
your body rejuvenate and thums
oxygen the right hand should be in
oxygen the right hand should be in
oxygen the right hand should be in
nasika mudra keep the left P inanam
nasika mudra keep the left P inanam
nasika mudra keep the left P inanam
mudra breathe in from the left nostril
mudra breathe in from the left nostril
mudra breathe in from the left nostril
then close the left nostril with the
then close the left nostril with the
then close the left nostril with the
small and ring fingers and release the
small and ring fingers and release the
small and ring fingers and release the
thumb from the right nostril exhale to
thumb from the right nostril exhale to
thumb from the right nostril exhale to
the right
the right
the right
nostril next inhale through the right
nostril next inhale through the right
nostril next inhale through the right
nostril at the end of inhalation close
nostril at the end of inhalation close
nostril at the end of inhalation close
the right nostril open the left nostril
the right nostril open the left nostril
the right nostril open the left nostril
and exhale through
and exhale through
and exhale through
[Music]
it repeat five rounds a shapely and
it repeat five rounds a shapely and
it repeat five rounds a shapely and
supple body body is important for one's
supple body body is important for one's
supple body body is important for one's
well-being 3one ASA is
well-being 3one ASA is
well-being 3one ASA is
beneficial to help strengthen calf thigh
beneficial to help strengthen calf thigh
beneficial to help strengthen calf thigh
and waist muscles it also makes the
and waist muscles it also makes the
and waist muscles it also makes the
spine flexible and improves lung
spine flexible and improves lung
spine flexible and improves lung
capacity stand with your feet
capacity stand with your feet
capacity stand with your feet
comfortably
comfortably
comfortably
apart slowly raise both the arms
apart slowly raise both the arms
apart slowly raise both the arms
sideways till they are
sideways till they are
sideways till they are
horizontal exhale slowly Bend to the
horizontal exhale slowly Bend to the
horizontal exhale slowly Bend to the
right side and place the right hand just
right side and place the right hand just
right side and place the right hand just
behind the right foot the left arm is
behind the right foot the left arm is
behind the right foot the left arm is
straight up in line with the right arm
straight up in line with the right arm
straight up in line with the right arm
turn the left palm
turn the left palm
turn the left palm
forward remain in this posture for 10 to
forward remain in this posture for 10 to
forward remain in this posture for 10 to
30 seconds with normal breathing repeat
30 seconds with normal breathing repeat
30 seconds with normal breathing repeat
the same for the left
the same for the left
the same for the left
side doing yoga is therapeutic but at
side doing yoga is therapeutic but at
side doing yoga is therapeutic but at
the same time you must remember that it
the same time you must remember that it
the same time you must remember that it
is not a competition and you have to
is not a competition and you have to
is not a competition and you have to
closely listen to your body and act
closely listen to your body and act
closely listen to your body and act
accordingly regular practice will make
accordingly regular practice will make
accordingly regular practice will make
you more confident your body more subtle
you more confident your body more subtle
you more confident your body more subtle
your mind more focused to practice
your mind more focused to practice
your mind more focused to practice
Advanced Arenas patience is a virtue
Advanced Arenas patience is a virtue
Advanced Arenas patience is a virtue
especially in the practice of yoga the
especially in the practice of yoga the
especially in the practice of yoga the
one hour that you will commit in the
one hour that you will commit in the
one hour that you will commit in the
practice of yoga is not just going to
practice of yoga is not just going to
practice of yoga is not just going to
give you a healthy body but also a
give you a healthy body but also a
give you a healthy body but also a
healthy mind yoga will pave your way to
healthy mind yoga will pave your way to
healthy mind yoga will pave your way to
a balanced approach in life and break
a balanced approach in life and break
a balanced approach in life and break
you free from all physical
you free from all physical
you free from all physical
pain wishing you all a very happy
pain wishing you all a very happy
pain wishing you all a very happy
International World yoga day
International World yoga day
International World yoga day
keep practicing and stay healthy
keep practicing and stay healthy
keep practicing and stay healthy
[Music]
[Music]

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 5 =====

Kind: captions
Language: en
Yoga for peace
Yoga for peace
Yoga for peace
Nadia should be
the word Nadi should be literally means
the word Nadi should be literally means
the word Nadi should be literally means
cleansing the Nadi's when we say noddies
cleansing the Nadi's when we say noddies
cleansing the Nadi's when we say noddies
we are not talking about the 72,000
we are not talking about the 72,000
we are not talking about the 72,000
because these 72,000 are only a
because these 72,000 are only a
because these 72,000 are only a
brainchild of the two basic Nadi's the
brainchild of the two basic Nadi's the
brainchild of the two basic Nadi's the
pingala and the eda 36,000 branching out
pingala and the eda 36,000 branching out
pingala and the eda 36,000 branching out
from Pingala 36,000 branching out from
from Pingala 36,000 branching out from
from Pingala 36,000 branching out from
EDA this is the energy physiology of a
EDA this is the energy physiology of a
EDA this is the energy physiology of a
human being when we say not it should be
human being when we say not it should be
human being when we say not it should be
we are talking about cleansing
we are talking about cleansing
we are talking about cleansing
fundamentally the pingala and EDA so
fundamentally the pingala and EDA so
fundamentally the pingala and EDA so
that energy system will work in balance
that energy system will work in balance
that energy system will work in balance
there is a connection between your
there is a connection between your
there is a connection between your
breath and your mental structure to
breath and your mental structure to
breath and your mental structure to
bring balance to your thought is a very
bring balance to your thought is a very
bring balance to your thought is a very
important step that you need to take if
important step that you need to take if
important step that you need to take if
you want to bring balance to your
you want to bring balance to your
you want to bring balance to your
activity your emotion and the results of
activity your emotion and the results of
activity your emotion and the results of
your life and the impact that you have
your life and the impact that you have
your life and the impact that you have
in other people's lives not it should be
in other people's lives not it should be
in other people's lives not it should be
plays an important role
here are a few guidelines that will set
here are a few guidelines that will set
here are a few guidelines that will set
optimal conditions and greatly enhance
optimal conditions and greatly enhance
optimal conditions and greatly enhance
your receptivity of the practices please
your receptivity of the practices please
your receptivity of the practices please
ensure cell phones are either in silent
ensure cell phones are either in silent
ensure cell phones are either in silent
mode or switched off it is advisable not
mode or switched off it is advisable not
mode or switched off it is advisable not
to sit for the program with a full
to sit for the program with a full
to sit for the program with a full
stomach or immediately after a meal
stomach or immediately after a meal
stomach or immediately after a meal
please sit with your spine comfortably
please sit with your spine comfortably
please sit with your spine comfortably
erect hands uncrossed and palms open
erect hands uncrossed and palms open
erect hands uncrossed and palms open
these conditions will prepare you to be
these conditions will prepare you to be
these conditions will prepare you to be
in a heightened state a receptivity and
in a heightened state a receptivity and
in a heightened state a receptivity and
derive the most benefits from the
derive the most benefits from the
derive the most benefits from the
practices these practices are very safe
practices these practices are very safe
practices these practices are very safe
and simple and can be done by anybody
and simple and can be done by anybody
and simple and can be done by anybody
the practices we'll be learning here can
the practices we'll be learning here can
the practices we'll be learning here can
be done by anyone ages 7 years and above
be done by anyone ages 7 years and above
be done by anyone ages 7 years and above
if you wear glasses while doing the yoga
if you wear glasses while doing the yoga
if you wear glasses while doing the yoga
practices please remove them and keep
practices please remove them and keep
practices please remove them and keep
them aside how to do Nadi should be she
them aside how to do Nadi should be she
them aside how to do Nadi should be she
will demonstrate please observe sit in a
will demonstrate please observe sit in a
will demonstrate please observe sit in a
cross-legged posture with your spine
cross-legged posture with your spine
cross-legged posture with your spine
comfortably erect eyes closed left hand
comfortably erect eyes closed left hand
comfortably erect eyes closed left hand
should be loosely placed in the middle
should be loosely placed in the middle
should be loosely placed in the middle
of your lap palm facing upwards use only
of your lap palm facing upwards use only
of your lap palm facing upwards use only
your right hand use your thumb and ring
your right hand use your thumb and ring
your right hand use your thumb and ring
finger fold your middle and index
finger fold your middle and index
finger fold your middle and index
fingers the ring and little finger are
fingers the ring and little finger are
fingers the ring and little finger are
held straight and side by side touching
held straight and side by side touching
held straight and side by side touching
now block your right nostril with your
now block your right nostril with your
now block your right nostril with your
thumb and inhale through your left
thumb and inhale through your left
thumb and inhale through your left
nostril
nostril
nostril
after the inhalation is complete exhale
after the inhalation is complete exhale
after the inhalation is complete exhale
through the same in a similar fashion
through the same in a similar fashion
through the same in a similar fashion
using the ring finger block your left
using the ring finger block your left
using the ring finger block your left
nostril and inhale through the right
nostril and inhale through the right
nostril and inhale through the right
nostril then exhale through the same
nostril then exhale through the same
nostril then exhale through the same
again block the right and open the left
again block the right and open the left
again block the right and open the left
inhale and exhale
inhale and exhale
inhale and exhale
continue like this be focused on your
continue like this be focused on your
continue like this be focused on your
breath so when you do this Nadi should
breath so when you do this Nadi should
breath so when you do this Nadi should
be what is most important is to breathe
be what is most important is to breathe
be what is most important is to breathe
fully in and fully out as slowly and as
fully in and fully out as slowly and as
fully in and fully out as slowly and as
gently as it is possible for you you
gently as it is possible for you you
gently as it is possible for you you
should not make any sound when you
should not make any sound when you
should not make any sound when you
exhale or inhale so for this to happen
exhale or inhale so for this to happen
exhale or inhale so for this to happen
you just need to remember one basic
you just need to remember one basic
you just need to remember one basic
point so that Nadi should be happens by
point so that Nadi should be happens by
point so that Nadi should be happens by
itself you will always switch after
itself you will always switch after
itself you will always switch after
every exhalation
every exhalation
every exhalation
so that means whichever nostril you
so that means whichever nostril you
so that means whichever nostril you
inhale through the same nostril you
inhale through the same nostril you
inhale through the same nostril you
exhale through you do not it should be
exhale through you do not it should be
exhale through you do not it should be
for a minimum of four minutes a few
for a minimum of four minutes a few
for a minimum of four minutes a few
Corrections for the practice do not keep
Corrections for the practice do not keep
Corrections for the practice do not keep
your left hand on the thigh the left
your left hand on the thigh the left
your left hand on the thigh the left
hand should be loosely placed in the
hand should be loosely placed in the
hand should be loosely placed in the
middle of your lap to clarify on the
middle of your lap to clarify on the
middle of your lap to clarify on the
right hand you use only your thumb and
right hand you use only your thumb and
right hand you use only your thumb and
ring finger the ring and little finger
ring finger the ring and little finger
ring finger the ring and little finger
are held straight and are side by side
are held straight and are side by side
are held straight and are side by side
touching hold your middle and index
touching hold your middle and index
touching hold your middle and index
fingers
fingers
fingers
if you are unable to hold them straight
if you are unable to hold them straight
if you are unable to hold them straight
do it as best you can
you
also there's a tendency to keep the head
also there's a tendency to keep the head
also there's a tendency to keep the head
down or turn to one side
down or turn to one side
down or turn to one side
unconsciously your face may tilt one way
unconsciously your face may tilt one way
unconsciously your face may tilt one way
or the other your head should be
or the other your head should be
or the other your head should be
straight if you maintain this your
straight if you maintain this your
straight if you maintain this your
system will come to a balance very
system will come to a balance very
system will come to a balance very
quickly ensure not to press too hard on
quickly ensure not to press too hard on
quickly ensure not to press too hard on
the lower part of the nostril locate the
the lower part of the nostril locate the
the lower part of the nostril locate the
septal bone on your right nostril just a
septal bone on your right nostril just a
septal bone on your right nostril just a
millimeter beneath that if you place the
millimeter beneath that if you place the
millimeter beneath that if you place the
thumb with very minimal pressure you can
thumb with very minimal pressure you can
thumb with very minimal pressure you can
block the nostril effectively so that no
block the nostril effectively so that no
block the nostril effectively so that no
air can escape ensure you are not
air can escape ensure you are not
air can escape ensure you are not
breathing shallow doing normal breathing
breathing shallow doing normal breathing
breathing shallow doing normal breathing
or holding the breath the breathing
or holding the breath the breathing
or holding the breath the breathing
should be fully in and fully out we will
should be fully in and fully out we will
should be fully in and fully out we will
do not II should DEET together now
sit in a cross-legged posture with your
sit in a cross-legged posture with your
sit in a cross-legged posture with your
spine comfortably erect if you are
spine comfortably erect if you are
spine comfortably erect if you are
unable to sit on the floor you can sit
unable to sit on the floor you can sit
unable to sit on the floor you can sit
in a chair with your legs crossed at the
in a chair with your legs crossed at the
in a chair with your legs crossed at the
ankles left hand should be loosely
ankles left hand should be loosely
ankles left hand should be loosely
placed in the middle of your lap palm
placed in the middle of your lap palm
placed in the middle of your lap palm
facing upward use only your right hand
facing upward use only your right hand
facing upward use only your right hand
use your thumb and ring finger fold your
use your thumb and ring finger fold your
use your thumb and ring finger fold your
middle and index fingers the ring and
middle and index fingers the ring and
middle and index fingers the ring and
little finger are held straight and are
little finger are held straight and are
little finger are held straight and are
side by side touching close your eyes
side by side touching close your eyes
side by side touching close your eyes
now block your right nostril with your
now block your right nostril with your
now block your right nostril with your
thumb and inhale through your left
thumb and inhale through your left
thumb and inhale through your left
nostril
nostril
nostril
after the inhalation is complete exhale
after the inhalation is complete exhale
after the inhalation is complete exhale
through the same
now using the ring finger block your
now using the ring finger block your
now using the ring finger block your
left nostril and inhale through the
left nostril and inhale through the
left nostril and inhale through the
right nostril then exhale through the
right nostril then exhale through the
right nostril then exhale through the
same
again block the right and open the left
again block the right and open the left
again block the right and open the left
inhale
inhale
inhale
and exhale
to do this until we ask you to stop
be focused on your breath
the breathing is fully in and fully out
the breathing is fully in and fully out
the breathing is fully in and fully out
do it as low
do it as low
do it as low
gently as you can
you
make sure your spine is comfortably
make sure your spine is comfortably
make sure your spine is comfortably
erect
you
ensure your head is straight
you
continue to be focused on your breath
you
you can end with an exhalation
you can end with an exhalation
you can end with an exhalation
left nostril and star
please slowly open your eyes this is not
please slowly open your eyes this is not
please slowly open your eyes this is not
the ultimate goal of life it is the most
the ultimate goal of life it is the most
the ultimate goal of life it is the most
fundamental requirement if you hold it
fundamental requirement if you hold it
fundamental requirement if you hold it
as the ultimate goal in your life you
as the ultimate goal in your life you
as the ultimate goal in your life you
will only rest in peace
you

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 6 =====

[Music] namaste hati welcome to you all as you are aware the ministry of government of india is organizing various activities in the run-up to the international day of yoga 2021 one among these is the series of five webinars that the ministry is organizing under the broad theme of bibit yoga be at home in collaboration with five renowned yoga institutions of the country who will present one webinar each on particular topic of importance in the current scenario the first among the series has been presented yesterday by eminent yoga master of the art of living [Music] today we are going to have the insightful talk by expert from the yoga institute santa cruz mumbai miss shashi sardarji shashi sadaji is a senior sadaq and a teacher of the yoga institute of mumbai for the last more than two decades she has a deep knowledge of yoga philosophy and the principles of yoga therapy and a very sought after teacher of the institute today ms tashiji is going to talk on the topic yoga for emotional and mental health this is a very important event and we have a expertise from uh art of living the yoga institutes santa cruz kabul dhamma lunawar arihom yoga dhana yoga experts of all these institutions are going to conduct everyday webinars on various themes of relevance the program is live every day from 5 to 6 pm with these few words i once again welcome the today's presenter miss shashiji and also welcome all of you for this webinar thank you very much [Music] namaste and a warm welcome from the yoga institute the yoga institute is one of the oldest institute in the world it is more than 100 years old institute founded by sri yogi and mata sitadevi he was one of the great yogis who believed in getting yoga to each and every household i am shashi sada i am associated with the institute since the past 10 years today we bring to you a beautiful topic of emotional and mental well-being in these karuna times the word corona i think we are quite done with it the moment nowadays we hear the word we just want to shut off the video shut off the call shut off the whatsapp anything and everything most of us now somehow know that we know how to deal with it well in today's talk we are not telling you any of those regular stuff i'm not telling you how dangerous the virus is how we have to take care of ourselves how we have to deal with our fears and anxieties but not any of all of that but what i have got for you today is a beautiful solution the only things that we really get worked up upon is with the log down the low wages the joblessness all these things are getting more stressful to us than the world covered itself well somehow deep down in our heart we know how to deal with corona and the amount of kardash and the breathing techniques that we've done in the past two years we've not done the entire life and i don't think we're gonna ever do it again but what we really need to work on is our day-to-day stresses day-to-day bread butters day-to-day people who are into their daily wages there are lots of pains much much more chronic and severe than the covert itself for that we have brought this beautiful topic of emotional and mental well-being covered or no covet we need to take care of our emotional self of our mental self the best way to take care of emotional self is to open your chest out open your heart out open your lungs out breathe well think well release all the emotions and get to a nice clean heart we feel like crying when we are sitting caged in the houses we love to see the world outside if we are allowed even to walk down in the building we feel happy the small things are giving us much more happiness which we never looked upon before the lockdown when we used to go to the zoos and get very happy seeing those big animals caged and feel like a more powerful person than the lion or the tiger on the other side of the fence well today we are in the same condition we are caged and the animals out there are more powerful more better off than us the dogs do go for a walk but we are not allowed to go for a walk look at the irony of the situation well we know we have to stay like this for some more months we don't know how many but it's just around the corner our solutions our situations are going to change but till then we have to hold up the times are tough but that's okay we will learn how to deal with it so here are a few practices few experiences which i want you to go through today releasing your emotions completely but emotions is not the only thing we go through fears anxiety we go through fatigue what we call it the covet fatigue the fatigue of just being stuck into four walls fatigue of not meeting our loved ones fatigue of just seeing people over video calls fatigue of just thinking that how long well that's called the mental fatigue we get up in the morning and we know it's just another day it's just the same day as yesterday we pick up ourselves try our level best to do the best that we can today to today's day but then we hear certain news which are not so pleasant it sucks our energy down again well that's the mental disturbance that we need to deal with and the only way to deal with mental disturbance is just let go let go completely surrender completely by surrendering is it so easy is it so easy that i tell you to let go and we are able to let go is it so easy to let go of your loved ones is it so easy to let go of your jobs of your daily wages well not definitely not but yes we can make an attempt to just get it out of our mental space that's the space which disturbs us the most the moment we release it release that thought of insecurity of anxiety of panic or something unknown we need to release that thought the moment we release that thought we feel better our mind gets clearer and with this clear mind we can think better the moment we think better we can look at all the other aspects which are out there open still for us open to make our daily wages come back to make our mental space better to make ourselves happier so there is a sequence of asanas that we are going to bring to you which will just release yourself completely which will release your mental fears completely i know it's difficult as we say in yoga when we can't deal with the mind we start dealing with the asanas through the asanas we learn to go touch upon the mind it's hard to let go but by doing the asanas you will develop a bow of vairagya a bow of complete surrender with all these experiences with me just speaking about them it's not going to help let's start experiencing it with us i want all of you all to grab a mat sit there comfortably and along with me go and experience the opening of your chest opening of your heart releasing your emotions opening up your mental space by completely surrendering to everything that's around us all right i see that you all are on your mats let's sit comfortably in any posture that you're comfortable in you can sit in sukhasana vajrasana in padmasan whatever makes you comfortable let's sit there let's condition our mind before we begin any of our practices let's keep our hands on our knees back straight our chin is parallel to the ground focus at one point for a few seconds keep focusing at that one point not mechanically but with complete awareness observe what you're looking at the color the shape the size is it completely visible or it's slightly blur completely centering yourself to the focal point being aware of the present moment we're going to gently close our eyes as you can see my colleague performing this posture [Music] staying there keeping your eyes closed [Music] relaxing your forehead relax your eyes relax your facial muscles relax your fingers elbows shoulders just start relaxing the entire body completely to the ground [Music] withdrawing all your thoughts from the outside world and gently bringing your attention to the movements of your chest and your breathing inhaling slowly the chest comes out exhaling slowly the chest drops back down relaxing yourself with each and every breath [Music] each and every breath completely one with yourself just stay here for a little while experiencing this state where it's only you and your breathing gently open your eyes [Music] inhaling slowly take your hands from the side interlock your hands palms facing the ceiling stretch your hands up completely keep stretching your spine up feel the stretch from your armpits from your shoulders gently push the knees down keep lifting your spine keep pushing your lower body down grounding your lower body to the floor and reaching up to the skies as much as possible gently relax your elbows shoulders elbows behind chest lifted out drop your head behind open the chest completely feel the opening of your heart your chest your lungs breathe nicely over here drop your head behind gently straighten up your head straighten up your spine take your hands up again stretch and lengthen once again release all the stress the toxins out of your system once again elbow relax shoulder relaxed open your chest nicely feel the opening of your clavicular muscles feel the opening of your armpits push the elbows behind pop the chest out feel the shoulder blades coming towards each other inhaling slowly take your hands up stretch up nicely exhaling slowly release and relax your hands down completely ah it just relaxes you totally you feel completely relaxed the moment you stretch your spinal cord the moment you increase the blood circulation around that area wonderful now we're feeling our shoulders a bit tired so let's go in for a few rounds of shoulder rotation hands on your knees back straight we're going to gently rotate the shoulders clockwise for five rounds so inhaling take your shoulders up behind drop and take a full circle one two [Music] three four five reverse it gently one two three four and five [Music] relax yourself completely wonderful after releasing all the stress from the spine after improving the blood circulation in the upper body let's move into slight twisting twisting asanas are very good to remove the toxins out of your system remove the fatigue out of your system just by doing two rounds with us you will feel a marked difference in how you start feeling immediately so for twisting let's take the left hand on the right knee right hand behind at the center of your glutes you're going to lift your spine up keep the back straight and gently start twisting to the right side keep pushing yourself from the right side push your right shoulder behind and gently start squeezing and pushing your chest towards the right side experience how the squeezing of the middle back is happening experience how beautifully the chest is getting twisted exhale and slightly push yourself a little more and feel the entire middle back rinsing like a cloth and very gently exhaling come back center gently move to the opposite side now right hand on the left knee and left hand behind again left hand close to the glutes lift your spine up and start moving your chest towards the left side gently push the shoulder first the left shoulder goes behind and gently start squeezing from the chest exhale slowly go behind more exhale again slightly push little more and rinse at the middle back exhaling once more exhale and go push behind feel the final rinsing of your spine and slowly come back center wonderful i'm sure you already started feeling a little fresh but let's make it feel a little more good for that we're going to do another set of twisting for that let's place our left hand at the fingertips at the center of your body as you can see my colleague doing it place your hands on the fingertips take the right hand behind in the center of your glue again lift your spine and start pushing your chest behind and shoulder behind on the right side press the fingertips on both the hands firmly on the ground the fingertips are the nerve ending these nerve endings are very good to balance the entire body so keep pressing the fingertips to the floor keep lifting your spine up exhale push the chest slightly more behind keep exhaling otherwise you may land up into a short cramp stay there press the fingers nicely and slowly exhaling come back to the center let's repeat on the opposite side right hand fingertips on the ground in the center left hand fingertips behind at the center of your glutes once again lift your spine up just lift it exhaling start twisting on to the left side keep pressing the fingertips the nerve ends need to get stimulated the moment they get stimulated there's a good blood circulation and balances the dosha so let's go behind squeeze squeeze your chest exhale slightly more behind exhale slightly more behind and slowly come back center wonderful i'm sure after this posture you must be feeling much much more open much more less time let's move into a nice chest opener as i said to release the emotions you need to knead you need to open your chest muscles you need to open your heart let's place the right hand on the right side palm is nicely firmly placed on the ground left hand goes towards the right side lift your left hand up open your chest towards the left side look comfortably at the left side while you're looking at the left side start opening your left chest towards the left side start taking your hands more and more towards the right side both elbows absolutely straight push the left knee down as you do this feel the extension from the left knee all the way up to the chest and to the fingertips feel the squeezing again at the chest level behind your chest and opening of the chest in front when you stay there for a little while exhaling slowly release and come back to the center let's repeat on the opposite side let's place the left palm on the floor nicely elbow straight off the left hand again right hand up open the chest towards the right side look gently to the right side and keep lifting your right side up dropping it towards the left side rather extending it towards the left side press the right knee gently down and feel the difference in your stretch press the chest more behind right chest go slightly more behind and open the chest to feel the inhalation and exhalation opening of your intercostal muscles opening off your ribcage and exhaling slowly release and relax your hands down completely so how do you feel after a beautiful side stretch chest opener and the opening of the ribcage let's move into another variation which will open our rib cage and the sides and the chest much more gently place the right hand slightly extended from the body bend the elbow and place it on the floor comfortably take the left hand up lengthen the left hand and take it over the head open the chest and look towards the ceiling feel again the squeezing of the chest feel the opening of the chest trying to face the chest towards the ceiling keep extending the left hand over the head press the left knee down gently and feel the extensions improving beautiful extensions opening of the chest releasing all the emotional baggage that we have been holding on and keep holding on every single day exhaling gently come back up to the neutral position [Music] let's repeat on the opposite side again left palm slightly away from the body place it firmly on the ground drop the elbow down nicely relax your left side take the right hand up over the head open the chest towards the ceiling and if comfortable look up towards the feeling opening of the chest releasing all the emotions that we have been keeping on building up let's release everything that we are holding on to by doing these beautiful chest opener postures and exhaling slowly come back center wonderful so how do you feel beautiful let's move into our next posture gently watch my colleague take give you a side view of the posture simple cross legs we're going to gently place our hands behind get your palms as close to each other as possible whatever you are comfortable in if it's not very close it's absolutely okay place the palms closed take them slightly behind your glue make it into a nice resting pose press the knees down and gently lift your chest and squeeze it outside feel the squeezing of the shoulder blades behind feel the chest coming out and opening your heart muscles completely if you're comfortable you can drop the neck behind if you feel slightly giddy or if you're not comfortable you can keep the neck straight but keep squeezing your shoulder blades from behind and feel the beautiful stretch that your hands are getting your shoulders your arms your middle back is getting and feel the release of emotions as you open up your chest towards the entire world stay there for a few breaths inhale exhale inhale exhale you can gently close your eyes and feel the inhalation and exhalation inhalation and exhalation slowly release relax your hands down there we're going to gently interlock our hands behind gonna palm facing outside lift your hands away from the body again squeeze the shoulder blades give it a nice stretch to the upper body feel again the opening of the lungs of the chest feel the opening of the entire ribcage take your hands as much as you can comfortably stay there inhale exhale inhale exhale inhale exhale and gently release [Music] wonderful one these posture is meditative want these postures opening up your lung and your heart aren't you feeling a little more release in your emotions wonderful whenever you feel a little emotional absurd you feel like crying you feel emotional about anything just do this sequence of emotional or just do the sequence of a nice lung opener chest opener and heart opener just by doing these few postures you will feel that your entire heart is open and ready to take on the world after this amazing series on emotional well-being let's move on to mental well-being as i mentioned earlier for releasing your mind space you need to release so you need to empty the cup as we all know that if the cup is already full and if we want to pour little more into it it's only going to spill out so if you want to really pour something in you need to empty the cup so if you want to look at something positive if you want to see something as a brighter side of life you need to empty that cup of the mind with all the negative emotions negative thoughts negative feelings that we have we need to release our fears anxieties and panics we need to release our body out of our head most of us nowadays are struggling with a lot of boredom with children with elders with middle aged and with senior citizens everybody is struggling with this one word the moment we release that we get a lot of energy and we start our mind starts working towards everything new alarm so let's experience some nice mental well-being asanas let's begin with a beautiful technique called yoga mudra well why is yog mudra so beautiful if we do it with the correct attitude it's a wonderful technique to do let's see my colleague doing it and let's follow with her for yogmudra again you sit in a nice sukhasana in a comfortable posture you're going to gently take your hands behind hold the right wrist with the left hand we're going to inhale lift your spine up and nicely inhale through the chest exhaling turn to the right side and go down on the right knee as you start going down you start surrendering your body completely to the ground start relaxing your shoulders start relaxing your elbows start relaxing your head down towards the ground whether you touch the knee or not is not important what is more important is your attitude behind the posture your attitude of complete surrendering complete surrendering to the gravitational force to the energy which is derived from the mother earth just stay there for a few breaths just relaxing your elbows your shoulders your upper body more and more towards the lower body allow the gravity to pull you without any interference from your side and slowly inhaling come up to the center beautiful once again at the center we inhale fully open up our chest exhaling twist to the left side and as we go down we exhale and keep surrendering our body on the left side we keep surrendering our shoulders elbows fingers your neck your facial muscles your crown stay there for a little while with that feeling of surrender and let go don't perform it mechanically don't perform it as an asana where you need to touch the head to the knee perform it with the feeling and attitude of where are you of let go a beautiful bhava a very essential power to be developed in today's tough time stay there for a few breaths and gently inhaling come back up to the center wonderful now let me tell you a little reason behind why we are doing this when we inhale and lift our chest up we actually tell the universe i am ready to face all the challenges that you are throwing upon me exhaling as i surrender and go down to the center this time relaxing my shoulders my elbows my fingers and my head to the ground i tell myself that after doing my best i now completely surrender to the almighty to the power to the universe so what is there in my hand is just do the best that i can at this point of time what is not there in my hand let's not try to control that let's surrender to all the things that are out of our control stay there for a little while keep relaxing yourself keep surrendering see how the gravity pulls you down without any interference from your side inhaling slowly come back center wonderful aren't you feeling already very relaxed in your mind well when you're doing these forward bend asanas you need to just keep your eyes closed and just slow with the asana the more you flow the more better your cup gets empty in your mental space as you're releasing all the thoughts to the force outside after this beautiful yoga mudra posture let's get on to a very nice posture called padrasana bhadrasana a butterfly pose as very famously known for that we need to join our feet together in namaste position get our feet as close to the perennial muscles as possible i'm going to just stay here for a little while allowing the inner thighs to open up generally due to our sitting postures are lying down posture there's always less of blood circulation around our groins this posture opens our groins improves the blood circulation it also works on our muladhara chakra which is the grounding we need to get our grounding back it's because our grounding is completely disturbed we are disturbed in our mind by just doing and sitting for a little while in bhadrasana can really help open up the groins and in turn make you feel more secured make you feel more focused the most and the biggest and the worst fear right now for all of us is the insecurity insecurity towards finances insecurity towards life insecurity towards food by doing these gentle postures of bhadrasana with the attitude of opening up the groins with the attitude of grounding ourselves more and more we can get our securities back we can feel much much more secured even with the chaos outside stay there in bhadrasana while you're staying in bhadrasana now gently place your hands on the feet while you're in bhadrasana and start dropping your head down towards the floor again with the feeling of surrender to gravity again not trying to touch your head to any part of the floor or the body just by gently going down feel the inner thighs opening feel the groins opening and feel the beautiful stretch that the lower body is getting and as you start surrendering you start enjoying the stretch that you're giving if you're going to try to focus on something well it's going to get painful for you the moment you start relaxing yourself and the posture completely changes your mood changes your mindset stay there for a few breaths inhale exhale inhale exhale inhale exhale inhaling slowly come back up center wonderful let's release the knees out straighten out i know we are feeling a little s pain around the knee around the back of the knee areas so let's loosen up the knees by flapping the knees a bit once you've relaxed your knees let's move into another beautiful posture called janusas for this posture again we're going to keep our legs straight fold the left leg in to touch the inner thighs of the right leg right leg is nicely extended out take your hands up lengthen your spine completely exhaling slowly go down and try and touch your hands to the toes it's absolutely okay if you cannot touch them to the toes try and grab your shins your calf or wherever you can comfortably place your hands while you're in this posture again start relaxing your upper body let the force of gravity take you down instead of you pushing yourself to go down the more important as i said is the feeling of let go rather than fighting with the posture to touch your head to the knee just stay there for a little while feel the back of the legs getting a nice stretch feel the hamstrings extended feel the glute muscles nicely opening if you feel that the hamstrings are slightly more extended at the back of the leg gently loosen up the knees or slightly bend the knee stay there in a relaxed posture as we say in yogas thiram left leg out bend the right knee and place the right feet to the inner thighs of the left leg again extend the spine up take our hands up towards the ceiling extending yourself go hands touching the toes stay there for a little while repeating as what we did from the right side as you drop yourself down keep surrendering keep going down keep surrendering keep going down stay there inhale exhale inhale exhale inhale and exhale inhaling slowly come back up to the center and release the posture now gently extend both the legs out we're going to do a paschim in this posture also it's a beautiful posture because it gives a full body stretch it gives the stretch from your heels all the way up to your neck region a complete opener the moment your body starts to open and there's a blood circulation which is flowing you automatically start feeling energized and positive so for pastanasana we're going to take our feet together those are pointing towards the face knees straight inhaling raise both hands up exhaling extend and go down again try to hold the toes if you are comfortable otherwise hold the ankles the shin muscles wherever you are comfortable and again stay there for a little time it's only when you stay in a particular asana for some time that you can actually understand what's happening inside the body let's turn our mind inward towards the posture let's feel the stretch that the lower back is getting the glute muscles are getting the hamstrings are getting the nice lengthened shoulders are getting nice beautiful chest which is dropping down stay there surrendering yourself keep the attitude of vairagya going throughout the process keeping your eyes closed and continuously surrendering to gravity is what is going to really empty your cup from all the unnecessary clutter that the mind is going through stay there again for a few breaths stay there inhaling exhaling drop the body little more inhale exhale drop it slightly more inhale exhaling relax yourself completely inhaling slowly take your hands up and exhaling relax your hands down comfortably now gently sit in a simple cross leg posture now did you experience any kind of let go do you feel that your mind has got little empty from all the clutter that was going on by just surrendering yourself and not resisting yourself to any changes outside the moment you do these changes in your mind you feel much more relaxed much more better you feel much more grounded much more secured let's try surrendering let's try by ragya and let's get secured in spite of all the chaos outside like a lotus in the mud the mud is not going to go anywhere we need to rise above the mud and become a lotus we need to rise above the adversities and still blossom let's move on to a few breathing pranayam techniques yes of course we have been doing a lot of pranayamas actually that's the only thing that we've been doing since two years but these techniques which we are going to get you through today are more for again relaxing your mind and your emotions let's start with a gentle comfortable posture in sukhasana left hand on the knee right hand gently placed onto the navel stay there comfortably just observing the navel breathing just keep observing how the navel comes out and how the navel drops down observing how slowly with every inhale the stomach comes in with every exhale the stomach drops down just keep relaxing your shoulders your elbows keeping your back straight relaxing your body completely let's make this breathing a meditative experience rather a mechanical let's inhale through the stomach for three counts and exhale through the stomach for three cows inhale one two three exhale one two three inhale one two three exhale one two three inhale one two three exhale one two three relax your breathings keep your hands on the navel only now gently place your left hand on the chest observe the breathing at the chest level as you inhale the chest comes out as you exhale the chest drops up being completely aware of your breath at the chest and the navel now we're going to begin to inhale at the chest and exhale at the navel region so when you inhale your focus is on the hand or the palm which is at the chest when you exhale you're going to focus on the right palm which is at the navel so let's begin inhale exhale level [Music] inhale chest exhale navel start relaxing your shoulders and elbows keep your body relaxed inhale chest [Music] exhale level [Music] inhale chest exhale lean inhale chest exhale lean inhale chest exhale navel inhale chest and exhale navel gently relax your palms to your knees [Music] and just observe how your breathing has calmed down completely this breathing is a very meditative breathing so when you do this pranayama you're completely focused on your breathing try and practice this just to get your mind into focus moving on to the next technique of breathing for that we are going to go into long exhalation extended reacher cars so for that let's see my colleague gently place your fingers around your mouth region and observe how your breath comes out of the mouth so gonna inhale through the nose and very gently exhale through the mouth just to experience the breath at the fingertips let's place our fingers right in front of our mouth let's do two rounds eyes closed inhale through the nose slow opening of the mouth exhale through the mouth keep exhaling slowly and gently [Music] once again inhale through the nose gently open your mouth small and exhale through the mouth [Music] relax your hands down and now we're going to do a couple of breaths like this just inhaling through the nose and exhaling through the mouth as slow and as long as possible don't push yourself too much be comfortable when you're doing the inhalation and exhalation so inhale through the nose comfortable inhale slowly exhale through the mouth comfortably exhale without straining your lungs inhale through the nose exhale through the mouth inhale through the nose exhale through the mouth inhale through the nose and exhale through the mouth and relax yourself completely the wrong exhalation all the long ray chakas are very relaxing to the mind the moment you feel anxious or fearful just do long exhalations you can exhale through the mouth or through your nose the next pranayama is chandra bhedi planar or left side nostril breathing [Music] for this pranayama we are going to place our first finger of the right hand to block the right nostril we're going to inhale exhale only from the left side now this is a very cooling pranayama this is also a very relaxing prana so whenever you feel that you have racing thoughts and you need to relax your mind you have to start doing 10 rounds of chandra baby branagh when many times we feel that our left nostril is blocked and we are not able to do the chandra vedi pranayama in that case we block the left nostril and do it from the right side inhale exhale from the right side or wait for that time of the day when the left nostril is open let's begin place the first finger off the right hand to close the right nostril go to inhale exhale from the left side so inhale left exhale left inhale left exhale left inhale left exhale lift inhale left exhale lift [Music] inhale lift and exhale lift relax your hands to the knees this is a very nice pranayam to also do just before sleeping relaxing your mind completely it helps you to get good sleep so the moment you have a good sleep you're fresh in the morning it really relaxes your mind gets you a deep good quality sleep now after this beautiful breathing techniques let's go into a small meditative a small meditation followed by shavasana let's all gently sit in a comfortable meditative posture we're going to keep our eyes closed throughout the process and just keep listening to the voice and enjoying what's happening around so hands on your knees back straight eyes closed start relaxing your body completely relax your forehead relax your eyes [Music] relax your cheeks shoulders elbows fingers soft gently start relaxing the entire body to the floor now slowly bringing attention to your eyes to the palette of your eyes observe the color that you can see in front of your eyes just bringing your awareness to the eye palette relaxing your eyes over there gently observe yourself [Music] feel the touch of air on your face feel the touch of air on all the exposed part of your hands [Music] of your feet feel the element of air surrounding you completely observe the connect to the element of value or air being completely focused in the present just observe yourself as if you're sitting in a garden with all the trees around with greenery around completely soothing and relaxing your mind hearing a few birds chirping [Music] feeling the breeze on your face on your hands enjoying this openness of the sky enjoying all the space around you staying in that garden being one with the nature feeling yourself as a part of that nature feeling a part of all the sounds around you feeling a part of the beautiful colors of the trees the plants the flowers feeling one with all the birds chirping and flying around enjoying the connect with the nature and thanking the almighty for the beautiful world created by him with complete gratitude in the mind complete humility in the heart feeling the grace of the nature [Music] respecting the nature [Music] and trying to be a part of the nature staying there in that garden for a little while [Music] staying one with the external environment we're going to slowly and gently bring our focus back on the palette of the eye observe the color of the palette of the eye do you see the same color all the color has changed just bring your awareness on that don't analyze anything don't try to change anything gentle awareness on the palate of the eye from there we gently lie down in the shavasana position we're going to take support at one side lie down on one side and gently go on our back extend the legs out straight little distance between the feet toes dropped on either side relax your hands by the side of the body palms facing upwards [Music] shoulders relaxed relaxing your entire body to the ground we're going to gently part by part relax the entire body starting with the toes relax your toes relax your ankles relax your cough muscles relax your knees relax your thighs [Music] relax your pelvic reaching relax your stomach relax your chest your heart to your lungs relax your shoulders elbows fingers relax your neck muscles [Music] relax your facial muscles relax your crown take a nice inhale exhaling relax the entire body completely to the ground as you relax the body feel the touch of earth feel the touch of mat on your body making yourself more and more grounded more and more connected to the element of earth with me enjoying the beautiful touch with the mother earth stay there completely relaxing yourself for a little while making gentle movements in hands and legs keeping your eyes closed gently turn to any one side and stay there in a fetal position for some time taking support of your hand you're going to come up to seated without disturbing our mind without opening our eyes [Music] gently rub your palms nicely place them on your eyes cup your eyes feel the warmth and energy created by your palms and whenever you're ready you can gently open your eyes and release the hands to the knees so tell me how was the session did you enjoy how are you feeling now from the time that we started the class till now do you feel a more lighter heart and a more empty mind well in that case we are on the right track enjoy everything that you experienced right now if you don't have the time to do the entire sequence do only the emotional sequence if you don't have much more time do only the mental sequence if you want to just thoroughly relax yourself do the pranayama the meditation and the shavasana but definitely do something and see a marked difference in how your mind and your body feels we all are going through a tough time but there is light ahead of the tunnel let's watch that light and walk the tunnel the sunrise is just around the corner thank you namaste

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 7 =====

Kind: captions
Language: en
hi everyone thanks for joining me today
hi everyone thanks for joining me today
hi everyone thanks for joining me today
so today we're going to work on a neck
so today we're going to work on a neck
so today we're going to work on a neck
and shoulder releasing sequence um it's
and shoulder releasing sequence um it's
and shoulder releasing sequence um it's
quite short it'll only be about 10
quite short it'll only be about 10
quite short it'll only be about 10
minutes and you can do this either
minutes and you can do this either
minutes and you can do this either
sitting on a mat or if you're in your
sitting on a mat or if you're in your
sitting on a mat or if you're in your
office or you prefer to sit on a chair
office or you prefer to sit on a chair
office or you prefer to sit on a chair
please feel free to grab a chair um so
please feel free to grab a chair um so
please feel free to grab a chair um so
let's just start in our comfortable
let's just start in our comfortable
let's just start in our comfortable
seated position resting the hands
seated position resting the hands
seated position resting the hands
lightly on the thighs and just close
lightly on the thighs and just close
lightly on the thighs and just close
down your
eyes just taking the first few moments
eyes just taking the first few moments
eyes just taking the first few moments
just to draw your attention
inwards starting to focus on your
breath taking a few slow deep
breaths just slightly scanning through
breaths just slightly scanning through
breaths just slightly scanning through
the body just notice if you're holding
the body just notice if you're holding
the body just notice if you're holding
tension
tension
tension
anywhere let's see if you can just
anywhere let's see if you can just
anywhere let's see if you can just
soften into that part of the body
soften into that part of the body
soften into that part of the body
particularly on the
exhale feeling some length through your
exhale feeling some length through your
exhale feeling some length through your
spine all the way up through the lower
spine all the way up through the lower
spine all the way up through the lower
back middle back upper back through the
back middle back upper back through the
back middle back upper back through the
neck and right up through the crown of
neck and right up through the crown of
neck and right up through the crown of
the
head
and then let's Open the
and then let's Open the
and then let's Open the
Eyes bring the arms down by your side
Eyes bring the arms down by your side
Eyes bring the arms down by your side
and we'll just start by circling the
and we'll just start by circling the
and we'll just start by circling the
shoulders forward and
back so nice big
back so nice big
back so nice big
circles and notice how your shoulders
circles and notice how your shoulders
circles and notice how your shoulders
are
are
are
feeling for a lot of us they can feel
feeling for a lot of us they can feel
feeling for a lot of us they can feel
just a little bit crunchy we tend to
just a little bit crunchy we tend to
just a little bit crunchy we tend to
hold a lot of stress in our
shoulders and keep your breath going
shoulders and keep your breath going
shoulders and keep your breath going
here as as well and let's change
here as as well and let's change
here as as well and let's change
direction so going just back and
forward just a few more like this try to
forward just a few more like this try to
forward just a few more like this try to
Breathe Into Your Shoulder
Breathe Into Your Shoulder
Breathe Into Your Shoulder
area and then let's bring the tips of
area and then let's bring the tips of
area and then let's bring the tips of
the fingers to the shoulders bring the
the fingers to the shoulders bring the
the fingers to the shoulders bring the
elbows together and then try to touch
elbows together and then try to touch
elbows together and then try to touch
the wrist behind the neck and then
the wrist behind the neck and then
the wrist behind the neck and then
Circle the elbows back so elbows and
Circle the elbows back so elbows and
Circle the elbows back so elbows and
wrists
wrists
wrists
elbows and wrists good and just continue
elbows and wrists good and just continue
elbows and wrists good and just continue
here so now we're trying to make some
here so now we're trying to make some
here so now we're trying to make some
really big circles with the
elbows just getting that
elbows just getting that
elbows just getting that
shoulder nice and loose just three more
shoulder nice and loose just three more
shoulder nice and loose just three more
in this direction
in this direction
in this direction
2 and one and just change direction so
2 and one and just change direction so
2 and one and just change direction so
we'll try to touch the wrist behind the
we'll try to touch the wrist behind the
we'll try to touch the wrist behind the
head
head
head
elbows wrists elbows and
again keep lifting up through your lower
again keep lifting up through your lower
again keep lifting up through your lower
back here so we want to try to avoid
back here so we want to try to avoid
back here so we want to try to avoid
slumping into the lower back let's do
slumping into the lower back let's do
slumping into the lower back let's do
three more
three more
three more
three
three
three
2 and one release the arms down by your
2 and one release the arms down by your
2 and one release the arms down by your
side let's take an inhale to lift the
side let's take an inhale to lift the
side let's take an inhale to lift the
shoulders up as high as you can towards
shoulders up as high as you can towards
shoulders up as high as you can towards
the ears so keep lifting lifting lifting
the ears so keep lifting lifting lifting
the ears so keep lifting lifting lifting
inhale and then exhale release it down
inhale and then exhale release it down
inhale and then exhale release it down
two more times just like that take an
two more times just like that take an
two more times just like that take an
inhale lift lift keep lifting and exhale
inhale lift lift keep lifting and exhale
inhale lift lift keep lifting and exhale
release and we'll do that one more time
release and we'll do that one more time
release and we'll do that one more time
inhale and then exhale letting it all go
inhale and then exhale letting it all go
inhale and then exhale letting it all go
good so if you are sitting on the mat
good so if you are sitting on the mat
good so if you are sitting on the mat
let's just bring your right leg in front
let's just bring your right leg in front
let's just bring your right leg in front
of the left yep and from here inhale to
of the left yep and from here inhale to
of the left yep and from here inhale to
reach the arms up bring the right arm in
reach the arms up bring the right arm in
reach the arms up bring the right arm in
front of the left turn the Palms to face
front of the left turn the Palms to face
front of the left turn the Palms to face
each other and then into Rel the fingers
each other and then into Rel the fingers
each other and then into Rel the fingers
take an inhale reach the arms up and
take an inhale reach the arms up and
take an inhale reach the arms up and
just hold it here so you're trying to
just hold it here so you're trying to
just hold it here so you're trying to
straighten your arms trying to press the
straighten your arms trying to press the
straighten your arms trying to press the
upper arms alongside the side of the
upper arms alongside the side of the
upper arms alongside the side of the
head and if you can't do this if it's
head and if you can't do this if it's
head and if you can't do this if it's
really stressing out the shoulders or
really stressing out the shoulders or
really stressing out the shoulders or
you feel like your rib cage is over uh
you feel like your rib cage is over uh
you feel like your rib cage is over uh
coming out just bring the arms slightly
coming out just bring the arms slightly
coming out just bring the arms slightly
in front of the head that's totally
in front of the head that's totally
in front of the head that's totally
fine and then let's take an inhale reach
fine and then let's take an inhale reach
fine and then let's take an inhale reach
the arms up and then exhale Bend those
the arms up and then exhale Bend those
the arms up and then exhale Bend those
elbows pressing the elbows back and then
elbows pressing the elbows back and then
elbows pressing the elbows back and then
inhale reach the arms up and then exhale
inhale reach the arms up and then exhale
inhale reach the arms up and then exhale
drop the shoulders away from the ears as
drop the shoulders away from the ears as
drop the shoulders away from the ears as
you do this inhale reach the arms up and
you do this inhale reach the arms up and
you do this inhale reach the arms up and
then exhale Bend let's just hold it here
then exhale Bend let's just hold it here
then exhale Bend let's just hold it here
for a couple of breaths you can either
for a couple of breaths you can either
for a couple of breaths you can either
be looking at the screen or you can gaze
be looking at the screen or you can gaze
be looking at the screen or you can gaze
towards the tip of the nose if you want
towards the tip of the nose if you want
towards the tip of the nose if you want
a point of
focus nice steady breath
here and then let's take an inhale reach
here and then let's take an inhale reach
here and then let's take an inhale reach
those arms back up try to straighten the
those arms back up try to straighten the
those arms back up try to straighten the
arms and then exhale to twist to your
arms and then exhale to twist to your
arms and then exhale to twist to your
right let the head go just a little bit
right let the head go just a little bit
right let the head go just a little bit
further keep straightening those
arms and then take another inhale reach
arms and then take another inhale reach
arms and then take another inhale reach
up through the waist and then keep the
up through the waist and then keep the
up through the waist and then keep the
twist we're going to just exhale release
twist we're going to just exhale release
twist we're going to just exhale release
the hands so the back of your left hand
the hands so the back of your left hand
the hands so the back of your left hand
comes to the outside of the right thigh
comes to the outside of the right thigh
comes to the outside of the right thigh
and then just take the twist a little
and then just take the twist a little
and then just take the twist a little
bit further to your
bit further to your
bit further to your
right just allow the left shoulder to
right just allow the left shoulder to
right just allow the left shoulder to
drop away from the left
ear take another inhale lengthen up
ear take another inhale lengthen up
ear take another inhale lengthen up
through the lower back and then exhale
through the lower back and then exhale
through the lower back and then exhale
increase the twist now we're going to
increase the twist now we're going to
increase the twist now we're going to
keep the twist just turn the head to
keep the twist just turn the head to
keep the twist just turn the head to
look back to
look back to
look back to
Center and from here drop your left ear
Center and from here drop your left ear
Center and from here drop your left ear
down to the left shoulder and drop the
down to the left shoulder and drop the
down to the left shoulder and drop the
left shoulder away from the ear as well
left shoulder away from the ear as well
left shoulder away from the ear as well
and then you can close your eyes here
and then you can close your eyes here
and then you can close your eyes here
just notice
just notice
just notice
how that right side neck is feeling and
how that right side neck is feeling and
how that right side neck is feeling and
breathe into
it now we're going to just change the
it now we're going to just change the
it now we're going to just change the
angle of the head slightly so turn your
angle of the head slightly so turn your
angle of the head slightly so turn your
head to look down towards your left
armpit or you could just experiment
armpit or you could just experiment
armpit or you could just experiment
notice where you want to take the
notice where you want to take the
notice where you want to take the
stretch just finding a spot that you
stretch just finding a spot that you
stretch just finding a spot that you
need to work on
today and then inhale come back up to
today and then inhale come back up to
today and then inhale come back up to
Center and then just Release Yourself
Center and then just Release Yourself
Center and then just Release Yourself
back back to the front take an inhale
back back to the front take an inhale
back back to the front take an inhale
lengthen up through both sides of the
lengthen up through both sides of the
lengthen up through both sides of the
waist and then exhale walk your hands
waist and then exhale walk your hands
waist and then exhale walk your hands
forward coming down just to where you
forward coming down just to where you
forward coming down just to where you
can relaxing the belly down towards the
can relaxing the belly down towards the
can relaxing the belly down towards the
legs and if you if it's possible bring
legs and if you if it's possible bring
legs and if you if it's possible bring
the forehead down to the to the mat to
the forehead down to the to the mat to
the forehead down to the to the mat to
the
floor and then take an inhale to walk
floor and then take an inhale to walk
floor and then take an inhale to walk
the hands back
up so let's bring your right hand down
up so let's bring your right hand down
up so let's bring your right hand down
just give yourself a bit of space from
just give yourself a bit of space from
just give yourself a bit of space from
your waist as well and then extend your
your waist as well and then extend your
your waist as well and then extend your
left arm over either stay on the hand or
left arm over either stay on the hand or
left arm over either stay on the hand or
come all the way down to the the forearm
come all the way down to the the forearm
come all the way down to the the forearm
so if you are on a chair just hold the
so if you are on a chair just hold the
so if you are on a chair just hold the
side of the chair you don't have to come
side of the chair you don't have to come
side of the chair you don't have to come
into a very deep side Bend just hold it
into a very deep side Bend just hold it
into a very deep side Bend just hold it
here keep pressing down through your
here keep pressing down through your
here keep pressing down through your
left sit
bone and if your neck's okay turn the
bone and if your neck's okay turn the
bone and if your neck's okay turn the
head to look up towards the ceiling keep
head to look up towards the ceiling keep
head to look up towards the ceiling keep
reaching out through the left
fingertips and then let's turn the head
fingertips and then let's turn the head
fingertips and then let's turn the head
to look back to Center and from here
to look back to Center and from here
to look back to Center and from here
keep the body where it is but bring that
keep the body where it is but bring that
keep the body where it is but bring that
left hand back down and then let the
left hand back down and then let the
left hand back down and then let the
head just relax and imagine someone's
head just relax and imagine someone's
head just relax and imagine someone's
pulling you up and you just let the Head
pulling you up and you just let the Head
pulling you up and you just let the Head
trail behind as you come back up and
trail behind as you come back up and
trail behind as you come back up and
then drop the left ear down to the left
then drop the left ear down to the left
then drop the left ear down to the left
shoulder and then bring your left hand
shoulder and then bring your left hand
shoulder and then bring your left hand
up and over just resting just behind the
up and over just resting just behind the
up and over just resting just behind the
ear or just over the top of the ear
ear or just over the top of the ear
ear or just over the top of the ear
don't pull the head down just let the
don't pull the head down just let the
don't pull the head down just let the
weight of the hand relax over the ear
weight of the hand relax over the ear
weight of the hand relax over the ear
and then point your right hand away turn
and then point your right hand away turn
and then point your right hand away turn
the Palm to Face Forward we're going to
the Palm to Face Forward we're going to
the Palm to Face Forward we're going to
do some little golf ball size circles
here so we're just moving the stretch
here so we're just moving the stretch
here so we're just moving the stretch
into different parts of that shoulder
into different parts of that shoulder
into different parts of that shoulder
area and then let's change
direction and then bring the hand behind
direction and then bring the hand behind
direction and then bring the hand behind
the back your right hand behind the back
the back your right hand behind the back
the back your right hand behind the back
and then from here we're just going to
and then from here we're just going to
and then from here we're just going to
do a PNF stretch so we're going to press
do a PNF stretch so we're going to press
do a PNF stretch so we're going to press
into the hand but with the head but
into the hand but with the head but
into the hand but with the head but
resist so just press into the hand for
resist so just press into the hand for
resist so just press into the hand for
three 2 one and then let it relax we're
three 2 one and then let it relax we're
three 2 one and then let it relax we're
going to do that two more times pressing
going to do that two more times pressing
going to do that two more times pressing
three 2 one and then relax one more time
three 2 one and then relax one more time
three 2 one and then relax one more time
pressing three 2 one and then relax and
pressing three 2 one and then relax and
pressing three 2 one and then relax and
then let's release that Top Hand release
then let's release that Top Hand release
then let's release that Top Hand release
the head and release the arm good just
the head and release the arm good just
the head and release the arm good just
give the shoulders a bit of a roll out
give the shoulders a bit of a roll out
give the shoulders a bit of a roll out
swap the legs around if you're seated
swap the legs around if you're seated
swap the legs around if you're seated
and we're going to go to the other side
and we're going to go to the other side
and we're going to go to the other side
so you've got your left leg in front
so you've got your left leg in front
so you've got your left leg in front
relax the arms down take an inhale reach
relax the arms down take an inhale reach
relax the arms down take an inhale reach
the arms up left hand in front of the
the arms up left hand in front of the
the arms up left hand in front of the
right turn the Palms to face each other
right turn the Palms to face each other
right turn the Palms to face each other
interlace the fingers and let's reach
interlace the fingers and let's reach
interlace the fingers and let's reach
those arms up alongside the ears just
those arms up alongside the ears just
those arms up alongside the ears just
take a couple of breaths
take a couple of breaths
take a couple of breaths
here trying to soften those floating
here trying to soften those floating
here trying to soften those floating
ribs back in towards the
ribs back in towards the
ribs back in towards the
spine take one more inhale lengthen up
spine take one more inhale lengthen up
spine take one more inhale lengthen up
and then exhale to bend those
and then exhale to bend those
and then exhale to bend those
elbows inhale reach the arms up and then
elbows inhale reach the arms up and then
elbows inhale reach the arms up and then
exhale to
exhale to
exhale to
bend and again inhale reach it up and
bend and again inhale reach it up and
bend and again inhale reach it up and
exhale Bend and let's just hold it here
exhale Bend and let's just hold it here
exhale Bend and let's just hold it here
in this bent position trying to drop the
in this bent position trying to drop the
in this bent position trying to drop the
shoulder blades down hugging against the
shoulder blades down hugging against the
shoulder blades down hugging against the
upper back but keep pressing the elbows
back and then inhale to reach the arms
back and then inhale to reach the arms
back and then inhale to reach the arms
back up and we're going to Exhale twist
back up and we're going to Exhale twist
back up and we're going to Exhale twist
to the left let the head go a little bit
to the left let the head go a little bit
to the left let the head go a little bit
further keep reaching those arms up keep
further keep reaching those arms up keep
further keep reaching those arms up keep
straightening those
arms one more inhale try to lengthen up
arms one more inhale try to lengthen up
arms one more inhale try to lengthen up
and then exhale keep the Twist and let's
and then exhale keep the Twist and let's
and then exhale keep the Twist and let's
release the hands back of the the right
release the hands back of the the right
release the hands back of the the right
hand to the outside of that left thigh
hand to the outside of that left thigh
hand to the outside of that left thigh
and just turn the head to look a little
and just turn the head to look a little
and just turn the head to look a little
bit further over the left
shoulder now keeping the twist let's
shoulder now keeping the twist let's
shoulder now keeping the twist let's
just turn the head to look back to
just turn the head to look back to
just turn the head to look back to
Center and then drop your right ear down
Center and then drop your right ear down
Center and then drop your right ear down
to your right
to your right
to your right
shoulder continue looking straight
shoulder continue looking straight
shoulder continue looking straight
ahead
noticing how your left side neck is
feeling one side might be a little bit
feeling one side might be a little bit
feeling one side might be a little bit
tighter than the other just be mindful
tighter than the other just be mindful
tighter than the other just be mindful
of
that and then let's just change the
that and then let's just change the
that and then let's just change the
angle of the head so we're going to turn
angle of the head so we're going to turn
angle of the head so we're going to turn
our head to look down towards the right
our head to look down towards the right
our head to look down towards the right
armpit or remember that you could just
armpit or remember that you could just
armpit or remember that you could just
experiment and just feel where you would
experiment and just feel where you would
experiment and just feel where you would
like to rest rest your
head last couple of
breaths and then inhale come back up to
breaths and then inhale come back up to
breaths and then inhale come back up to
Center and then let's release the body
Center and then let's release the body
Center and then let's release the body
back to Center take an inhale lengthen
back to Center take an inhale lengthen
back to Center take an inhale lengthen
up and exhale walk your hands forward
up and exhale walk your hands forward
up and exhale walk your hands forward
just to where you
just to where you
just to where you
can try to press down through the entire
can try to press down through the entire
can try to press down through the entire
palm of the
hand and inhaling to walk your hands
hand and inhaling to walk your hands
hand and inhaling to walk your hands
back up bringing your left hand down and
back up bringing your left hand down and
back up bringing your left hand down and
once again reaching your right arm over
once again reaching your right arm over
once again reaching your right arm over
either staying on the hand or coming all
either staying on the hand or coming all
either staying on the hand or coming all
the way down to the forearm extending
the way down to the forearm extending
the way down to the forearm extending
out through that right arm try to
out through that right arm try to
out through that right arm try to
lengthen out through the fingertips and
lengthen out through the fingertips and
lengthen out through the fingertips and
press down through your right sit bone
press down through your right sit bone
press down through your right sit bone
relax the shoulders away from the ears
relax the shoulders away from the ears
relax the shoulders away from the ears
and then either stay here or you can
and then either stay here or you can
and then either stay here or you can
turn your head to look up keeping the
turn your head to look up keeping the
turn your head to look up keeping the
chin just very gently drawn in just so
chin just very gently drawn in just so
chin just very gently drawn in just so
we're not getting a funny angle on the
head and then turn the hch look back to
head and then turn the hch look back to
head and then turn the hch look back to
Center keeping the body where it is
Center keeping the body where it is
Center keeping the body where it is
let's bring that right arm down let the
let's bring that right arm down let the
let's bring that right arm down let the
head relax down and then just let it
head relax down and then just let it
head relax down and then just let it
trail behind as you come up and then
trail behind as you come up and then
trail behind as you come up and then
drop your right ear down to your right
drop your right ear down to your right
drop your right ear down to your right
shoulder bring your right hand over the
shoulder bring your right hand over the
shoulder bring your right hand over the
head either onto the ear or just behind
head either onto the ear or just behind
head either onto the ear or just behind
the ear and point your left hand away
the ear and point your left hand away
the ear and point your left hand away
turn the Palm to face up and drop your
turn the Palm to face up and drop your
turn the Palm to face up and drop your
right shoulder away from the right ear
right shoulder away from the right ear
right shoulder away from the right ear
as well and then little golf ball size
as well and then little golf ball size
as well and then little golf ball size
circles
here and then let's change
direction and then let's bring the right
direction and then let's bring the right
direction and then let's bring the right
arm or sorry your left arm behind your
arm or sorry your left arm behind your
arm or sorry your left arm behind your
back and once again we're going to go
back and once again we're going to go
back and once again we're going to go
for our P NE stretch so we're going to
for our P NE stretch so we're going to
for our P NE stretch so we're going to
press into the hand with the head but
press into the hand with the head but
press into the hand with the head but
resist for three 2 one and then let it
resist for three 2 one and then let it
resist for three 2 one and then let it
relax two more times pressing three 2
relax two more times pressing three 2
relax two more times pressing three 2
one and let it relax just one more time
one and let it relax just one more time
one and let it relax just one more time
pressing three 2 one and relax and then
pressing three 2 one and relax and then
pressing three 2 one and relax and then
let's release that AR a top arm release
let's release that AR a top arm release
let's release that AR a top arm release
the back arm give the shoulders a few
the back arm give the shoulders a few
the back arm give the shoulders a few
circles
circles
circles
out take one deep breath in through the
out take one deep breath in through the
out take one deep breath in through the
nose and and then out through the
mouth so that's all we've got today so
mouth so that's all we've got today so
mouth so that's all we've got today so
enjoy the rest of your day or evening
enjoy the rest of your day or evening
enjoy the rest of your day or evening
and I'll see you next time
and I'll see you next time
and I'll see you next time
namaste

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 8 =====

All right. Mahashakti Kundalini namo namaha. Yes, south breath now to third eye. And exhale. Beautiful. Right heel down on the ground. Close going. Release yours. Bend your left knee. Change your finger lock. Do not keep the same finger lock. Open your chest here. Just go forward everybody. Stretch forward. You know if anyone has a knee problem, you go into lotus. Breathe breathe everybody. Knees and let this body flow up to here. Then only body will fly. It's not flexibility. It's just the opening of the chest. If your chest will open, your body will last longer everybody. Just breathe. More your pelvic going higher, it goes going to touch down on the ground. You need to open the arm. It only happen when your arm facing down. Just see what's there already. Who is there with you? Who are your helpers? Who are your guides? So sound, silence is also part of sound. This is your answer. And this is the basis of all you have. So stay in this space. The philosophy of the yoga is more related. She will find everything by going and sitting by the side of the river and finding feeling out from your left shoulder to three. Exhale three. Keep your balance on your right knee down on the ground. Lift your head up two. Exhale two. Over your left shoulder three. Push your back at the end and bring your right foot back and together. Exhale down. Yes, it's difficult but slowly exhale bend the left knee. Just get set up. Exhale and get ready up. Inhale bring your arms up. People squat the classes and practice very little. Exhale forward bend. Place your hands between the heels of your feet shoulder width apart. Do your classical five. Everybody stay where you are. Stay. Seven. Breathe where you are. Eight. Exhale hands to the heart center. Exhale hands to the heart center. Three more. Your legs, even though you're on the ground, you're moving your Nothing left behind after this class. Release those gifts. It's in the base of this body. It's in the body. Not just the memory. Keep your body moving. Any anger or grief, let it go now. If you let it. Go deeper. Go where it goes. Come on. This is your moment now. You don't have to follow the sequence. Just liberate the body and move. That's it. Okay, okay, okay from the beginning of time to the beginning of time, beyond time, throughout all time. Internalizing total life. Just slightly in and slowly lower. If you do this, keep going. Keep going. Feeling the pulse of you. I am remembering yourself right here, right now. Keep breathing and listening. Stroke the breath five through the left nostril, two through the right. Inhaling. Start with the arm down and then you bend it. You feel the arm down. Inhale. Body down up down. Exhale bend it. And then you stand your body. Beginning of the plank. So let this foot with you go out. Bring your elbows back. Exhale chaturanga. Halfway. Exhale. Elbows back. Inhale up. So your mind is established. Exhale bowing. Inhale diagonal. And breathe deeper to the earth. Press down to reach up. Inhale lifting through your heart center. Exhale offering. Exhale. Exhale. LAKSHMI NARAYAN. LAKSHMI. SO BEAUTIFUL. SO CAN WE HAVE TO KEEP having these programs? Why good?

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 9 =====

Kind: captions
Language: en
for that wonderful hour and now we go on
for that wonderful hour and now we go on
for that wonderful hour and now we go on
with the next part of the program for
with the next part of the program for
with the next part of the program for
today we have Dr Anand Bali Yogi
today we have Dr Anand Bali Yogi
today we have Dr Anand Bali Yogi
bhavanani here
bhavanani here
bhavanani here
who will be doing the simplified Yoga
who will be doing the simplified Yoga
who will be doing the simplified Yoga
practices for the health professionals
practices for the health professionals
practices for the health professionals
and
and
and
he needs no introduction no biodata I
he needs no introduction no biodata I
he needs no introduction no biodata I
don't have anything to read about him so
don't have anything to read about him so
don't have anything to read about him so
he said like keep it very short whatever
he said like keep it very short whatever
he said like keep it very short whatever
it is just one word or anything whatever
it is just one word or anything whatever
it is just one word or anything whatever
comes out of him comes out very
comes out of him comes out very
comes out of him comes out very
soulfully and that is why he is able to
soulfully and that is why he is able to
soulfully and that is why he is able to
reach you know the audience or the
reach you know the audience or the
reach you know the audience or the
interact interact with the people so
interact interact with the people so
interact interact with the people so
that is one thing that is very very true
that is one thing that is very very true
that is one thing that is very very true
about him and we have all felt it so
about him and we have all felt it so
about him and we have all felt it so
over to another yogisa for that session
over to another yogisa for that session
over to another yogisa for that session
on practices
so many of the
so many of the
so many of the
yoga
yoga
yoga
Seekers who are here
Seekers who are here
Seekers who are here
we are all here on
we are all here on
we are all here on
this International Day of yoga and
this International Day of yoga and
this International Day of yoga and
celebrating it here because SRI Balaji
celebrating it here because SRI Balaji
celebrating it here because SRI Balaji
vidyapeeth has the center for yoga
vidyapeeth has the center for yoga
vidyapeeth has the center for yoga
therapy Education and Research where
therapy Education and Research where
therapy Education and Research where
salutogenesis is our Focus what are the
salutogenesis is our Focus what are the
salutogenesis is our Focus what are the
faculty happy be the best we that we can
faculty happy be the best we that we can
faculty happy be the best we that we can
be in this lifetime
be in this lifetime
be in this lifetime
and
and
and
yoga has become so popular well one of
yoga has become so popular well one of
yoga has become so popular well one of
the major factors for all of it has been
the major factors for all of it has been
the major factors for all of it has been
that the West has adopted it
that the West has adopted it
that the West has adopted it
and we
and we
and we
seem to always wait for the West to give
seem to always wait for the West to give
seem to always wait for the West to give
us the certification and the moment the
us the certification and the moment the
us the certification and the moment the
Western countries said that Well yoga is
Western countries said that Well yoga is
Western countries said that Well yoga is
good we said well it belongs to us
good we said well it belongs to us
good we said well it belongs to us
up to that time not too many were
up to that time not too many were
up to that time not too many were
thinking about it and it's quite amazing
thinking about it and it's quite amazing
thinking about it and it's quite amazing
the number of people who have taken up
the number of people who have taken up
the number of people who have taken up
yoga a recent survey in the USA that was
yoga a recent survey in the USA that was
yoga a recent survey in the USA that was
shared by my dear friend Khalsa recently
shared by my dear friend Khalsa recently
shared by my dear friend Khalsa recently
there are quite a few practicing uh 36.7
there are quite a few practicing uh 36.7
there are quite a few practicing uh 36.7
million and
million and
million and
83 million said they are likely to try
83 million said they are likely to try
83 million said they are likely to try
yoga in the USA and the number of
yoga in the USA and the number of
yoga in the USA and the number of
practitioners if you look at it going up
practitioners if you look at it going up
practitioners if you look at it going up
from about 15 million in 2008 that just
from about 15 million in 2008 that just
from about 15 million in 2008 that just
in eight years it has more than doubled
in eight years it has more than doubled
in eight years it has more than doubled
so this is part of this movement of yoga
so this is part of this movement of yoga
so this is part of this movement of yoga
to become popular
to become popular
to become popular
and our honorable prime minister
and our honorable prime minister
and our honorable prime minister
was the first to
was the first to
was the first to
say that why not have a yoga day and as
say that why not have a yoga day and as
say that why not have a yoga day and as
a result of that
a result of that
a result of that
this is what happened last year in
this is what happened last year in
this is what happened last year in
rajpath this year it was happening in
rajpath this year it was happening in
rajpath this year it was happening in
pondicherry between 6 30 and 7 30 this
pondicherry between 6 30 and 7 30 this
pondicherry between 6 30 and 7 30 this
morning for those of you who have seen
morning for those of you who have seen
morning for those of you who have seen
the TV this morning you would have seen
the TV this morning you would have seen
the TV this morning you would have seen
it in tomorrow morning's papers we'll
it in tomorrow morning's papers we'll
it in tomorrow morning's papers we'll
have some beautiful photos of it and
have some beautiful photos of it and
have some beautiful photos of it and
same thing is happening happened at
same thing is happening happened at
same thing is happening happened at
Chandigarh today with I believe about 40
Chandigarh today with I believe about 40
Chandigarh today with I believe about 40
or 50 000 people again led by our prime
or 50 000 people again led by our prime
or 50 000 people again led by our prime
minister
minister
minister
well a man who leads from the front as
well a man who leads from the front as
well a man who leads from the front as
you have seen last year and again this
you have seen last year and again this
you have seen last year and again this
year
year
year
now here we are trying to bring together
now here we are trying to bring together
now here we are trying to bring together
the experiential wisdom of yoga because
the experiential wisdom of yoga because
the experiential wisdom of yoga because
as special and his service saying you
as special and his service saying you
as special and his service saying you
have to experience it you have to use
have to experience it you have to use
have to experience it you have to use
the same techniques the same methodology
the same techniques the same methodology
the same techniques the same methodology
if you are to have the experience
if you are to have the experience
if you are to have the experience
and without doing the technology you
and without doing the technology you
and without doing the technology you
will not experience it and then you say
will not experience it and then you say
will not experience it and then you say
it is a hallucination so here we are
it is a hallucination so here we are
it is a hallucination so here we are
trying to bring together that with the
trying to bring together that with the
trying to bring together that with the
empirical modern medicine and quite a
empirical modern medicine and quite a
empirical modern medicine and quite a
bit of work going on
bit of work going on
bit of work going on
I thought I'll share with you a few
I thought I'll share with you a few
I thought I'll share with you a few
mechanisms of yoga because what happens
mechanisms of yoga because what happens
mechanisms of yoga because what happens
is that
is that
is that
there has to be this integration of the
there has to be this integration of the
there has to be this integration of the
breath pattern with coordinated smooth
breath pattern with coordinated smooth
breath pattern with coordinated smooth
body movements and we are going to do a
body movements and we are going to do a
body movements and we are going to do a
few practical techniques before lunch
few practical techniques before lunch
few practical techniques before lunch
and I'll only take about 15 minutes for
and I'll only take about 15 minutes for
and I'll only take about 15 minutes for
this so that we don't we have enough
this so that we don't we have enough
this so that we don't we have enough
time to eat also
time to eat also
time to eat also
there's a conscious focus on the present
there's a conscious focus on the present
there's a conscious focus on the present
moment when you're doing The Yoga
moment when you're doing The Yoga
moment when you're doing The Yoga
practices as I'm stretching my arm I
practices as I'm stretching my arm I
practices as I'm stretching my arm I
should be thinking what am I doing how
should be thinking what am I doing how
should be thinking what am I doing how
are my arms stretching not what will be
are my arms stretching not what will be
are my arms stretching not what will be
there for lunch today
you know we should be where we are that
you know we should be where we are that
you know we should be where we are that
is the message of the yoga practice and
is the message of the yoga practice and
is the message of the yoga practice and
once you start doing it in the yoga
once you start doing it in the yoga
once you start doing it in the yoga
session you then take it off the yoga
session you then take it off the yoga
session you then take it off the yoga
mat and it should become part of your
mat and it should become part of your
mat and it should become part of your
day-to-day life 24 hours seven days a
day-to-day life 24 hours seven days a
day-to-day life 24 hours seven days a
week well for your whole life
week well for your whole life
week well for your whole life
when the body is still the mind starts
when the body is still the mind starts
when the body is still the mind starts
to calm down we all know that why do we
to calm down we all know that why do we
to calm down we all know that why do we
lie down to go to sleep why are we not
lie down to go to sleep why are we not
lie down to go to sleep why are we not
going on a treadmill and trying to sleep
going on a treadmill and trying to sleep
going on a treadmill and trying to sleep
because the body has to First be stilled
because the body has to First be stilled
because the body has to First be stilled
when the body is still the mind can
when the body is still the mind can
when the body is still the mind can
still but if your body is agitated your
still but if your body is agitated your
still but if your body is agitated your
mind cannot still itself so on one side
mind cannot still itself so on one side
mind cannot still itself so on one side
we talk about the psychosomatics
we talk about the psychosomatics
we talk about the psychosomatics
but then we also have to talk about the
but then we also have to talk about the
but then we also have to talk about the
Tomato psychics what are the effects
Tomato psychics what are the effects
Tomato psychics what are the effects
your body work can have on the mind
your body work can have on the mind
your body work can have on the mind
and again we find when the breath is
and again we find when the breath is
and again we find when the breath is
steady emotions become more balanced and
steady emotions become more balanced and
steady emotions become more balanced and
thus through these different mechanisms
thus through these different mechanisms
thus through these different mechanisms
we are improving all the aspects of
we are improving all the aspects of
we are improving all the aspects of
human
human
human
psychophysiological functioning
psychophysiological functioning
psychophysiological functioning
and these healthy improvements
and these healthy improvements
and these healthy improvements
in our well-being
in our well-being
in our well-being
enable us to attain the highest
enable us to attain the highest
enable us to attain the highest
potential and thus
potential and thus
potential and thus
enable us to manage the stresses you
enable us to manage the stresses you
enable us to manage the stresses you
cannot change the stressor the stressor
cannot change the stressor the stressor
cannot change the stressor the stressor
will always be the same but you can
will always be the same but you can
will always be the same but you can
decide whether you are going to let it
decide whether you are going to let it
decide whether you are going to let it
stress you or not and once again in the
stress you or not and once again in the
stress you or not and once again in the
same Hall I repeat what I always say
same Hall I repeat what I always say
same Hall I repeat what I always say
nothing can stress you unless you let it
nothing can stress you unless you let it
nothing can stress you unless you let it
stress you
stress you
stress you
and for those who are sleeping nothing
and for those who are sleeping nothing
and for those who are sleeping nothing
can stress you unless you let it stress
can stress you unless you let it stress
can stress you unless you let it stress
you
you
you
so who makes the choice we when do we
so who makes the choice we when do we
so who makes the choice we when do we
make the choice in the moment how do we
make the choice in the moment how do we
make the choice in the moment how do we
learn to live in that moment and make
learn to live in that moment and make
learn to live in that moment and make
the choice well that is why we bring
the choice well that is why we bring
the choice well that is why we bring
yoga into the equation so yoga is about
yoga into the equation so yoga is about
yoga into the equation so yoga is about
being in the moment making the choice
being in the moment making the choice
being in the moment making the choice
to be a master of the present moment so
to be a master of the present moment so
to be a master of the present moment so
that we can become a master of our
that we can become a master of our
that we can become a master of our
destiny
destiny
destiny
fate and free will we have free will
fate and free will we have free will
fate and free will we have free will
right now but my free will now
right now but my free will now
right now but my free will now
determines the destiny I'm going to have
determines the destiny I'm going to have
determines the destiny I'm going to have
to face later
to face later
to face later
so we are Master of the now and that is
so we are Master of the now and that is
so we are Master of the now and that is
what yoga tells us get into it now and
what yoga tells us get into it now and
what yoga tells us get into it now and
work on yourself so many techniques but
work on yourself so many techniques but
work on yourself so many techniques but
we are not going to be doing all of this
we are not going to be doing all of this
we are not going to be doing all of this
because what I want to remind you is
because what I want to remind you is
because what I want to remind you is
that it is the mind the human mind that
that it is the mind the human mind that
that it is the mind the human mind that
helps us because where your mind goes
helps us because where your mind goes
helps us because where your mind goes
there the energy flows Prana
and that is why if you are doing this
and that is why if you are doing this
and that is why if you are doing this
beautiful yoga practice and you are
beautiful yoga practice and you are
beautiful yoga practice and you are
thinking what is for lunch
there's no energy
there's no energy
there's no energy
so it's better you pick your nose and be
so it's better you pick your nose and be
so it's better you pick your nose and be
in the now you have more chances of
in the now you have more chances of
in the now you have more chances of
having energy then do the most
having energy then do the most
having energy then do the most
complicated yoga practice while thinking
complicated yoga practice while thinking
complicated yoga practice while thinking
about what movie you're going to watch
about what movie you're going to watch
about what movie you're going to watch
on CNN tonight
on CNN tonight
on CNN tonight
so be careful what where your mind goes
so be careful what where your mind goes
so be careful what where your mind goes
so we can use our mind to change our
so we can use our mind to change our
so we can use our mind to change our
brain
brain
brain
and by changing your brain you change
and by changing your brain you change
and by changing your brain you change
your mind for the better this is called
your mind for the better this is called
your mind for the better this is called
self-directed neuroplasty
self-directed neuroplasty
self-directed neuroplasty
neuroplasticity is the future and that
neuroplasticity is the future and that
neuroplasticity is the future and that
is where yoga comes in because you are
is where yoga comes in because you are
is where yoga comes in because you are
doing it for yourself
doing it for yourself
doing it for yourself
now if you can help a cell culture grow
now if you can help a cell culture grow
now if you can help a cell culture grow
or not grow
or not grow
or not grow
out in a petri dish
out in a petri dish
out in a petri dish
imagine what you can do when those cells
imagine what you can do when those cells
imagine what you can do when those cells
are in you
are in you
are in you
and that is why the Yama as madhavan Dr
and that is why the Yama as madhavan Dr
and that is why the Yama as madhavan Dr
madhavan said today the Yama are
madhavan said today the Yama are
madhavan said today the Yama are
restricting all the negative aspects of
restricting all the negative aspects of
restricting all the negative aspects of
you
you
you
stopping that growth and the niyama are
stopping that growth and the niyama are
stopping that growth and the niyama are
all the enhancing the positive aspects
all the enhancing the positive aspects
all the enhancing the positive aspects
of you so simultaneously you are working
of you so simultaneously you are working
of you so simultaneously you are working
on that samathwam of balancing reducing
on that samathwam of balancing reducing
on that samathwam of balancing reducing
the negativities enhancing the
the negativities enhancing the
the negativities enhancing the
positivities and constantly growing in
positivities and constantly growing in
positivities and constantly growing in
Balance yesterday your balance was here
Balance yesterday your balance was here
Balance yesterday your balance was here
that is also a balance today it is here
that is also a balance today it is here
that is also a balance today it is here
tomorrow you want it here but you always
tomorrow you want it here but you always
tomorrow you want it here but you always
want balance you don't want to go up
want balance you don't want to go up
want balance you don't want to go up
here without balance
here without balance
here without balance
because Down Here Without balance you
because Down Here Without balance you
because Down Here Without balance you
can survive the fall up here it's very
can survive the fall up here it's very
can survive the fall up here it's very
difficult to salarize the fall if you
difficult to salarize the fall if you
difficult to salarize the fall if you
don't have balance and this is where the
don't have balance and this is where the
don't have balance and this is where the
power of the Mind comes in and again
power of the Mind comes in and again
power of the Mind comes in and again
shared a very beautiful chart these this
shared a very beautiful chart these this
shared a very beautiful chart these this
will be available it's all right you
will be available it's all right you
will be available it's all right you
know what has happened is you have
know what has happened is you have
know what has happened is you have
already put the card before and that is
already put the card before and that is
already put the card before and that is
why we used to say yoga for diabetes
why we used to say yoga for diabetes
why we used to say yoga for diabetes
yoga for peace yoga for well-being I say
yoga for peace yoga for well-being I say
yoga for peace yoga for well-being I say
we should say well-being through yoga
we should say well-being through yoga
we should say well-being through yoga
Peace through Yoga Health through yoga
Peace through Yoga Health through yoga
Peace through Yoga Health through yoga
not yoga for health but Health through
not yoga for health but Health through
not yoga for health but Health through
yoga so yoga then there's no
yoga so yoga then there's no
yoga so yoga then there's no
anticipation there's no expectation and
anticipation there's no expectation and
anticipation there's no expectation and
automatically the manifestation occurs
automatically the manifestation occurs
automatically the manifestation occurs
we are going to do a very simple
we are going to do a very simple
we are going to do a very simple
technique and again I once again the
technique and again I once again the
technique and again I once again the
third time today request you to sit
third time today request you to sit
third time today request you to sit
straight
straight
straight
wherever you are sitting
wherever you are sitting
wherever you are sitting
sit with your back
sit with your back
sit with your back
the lower back the middle upper back the
the lower back the middle upper back the
the lower back the middle upper back the
neck the head aligned that's the only
neck the head aligned that's the only
neck the head aligned that's the only
practical instruction Lord Krishna gives
practical instruction Lord Krishna gives
practical instruction Lord Krishna gives
us
us
us
sit sit erect people say sit straight
sit sit erect people say sit straight
sit sit erect people say sit straight
you cannot sit straight because your
you cannot sit straight because your
you cannot sit straight because your
spine itself has all those curls you can
spine itself has all those curls you can
spine itself has all those curls you can
sit erect for sure you can align your
sit erect for sure you can align your
sit erect for sure you can align your
spine bring your hands now into a mudra
spine bring your hands now into a mudra
spine bring your hands now into a mudra
we are going to do some uni nostril
we are going to do some uni nostril
we are going to do some uni nostril
breathing and I'll tell you why we are
breathing and I'll tell you why we are
breathing and I'll tell you why we are
doing it later so that no expectations
doing it later so that no expectations
doing it later so that no expectations
these first two fingers we are going to
these first two fingers we are going to
these first two fingers we are going to
bend this is called the nasika nasika
bend this is called the nasika nasika
bend this is called the nasika nasika
mudra
mudra
mudra
I want you to first let's do the right
I want you to first let's do the right
I want you to first let's do the right
side first so with your right ring
side first so with your right ring
side first so with your right ring
finger
finger
finger
close your left nostril your right
close your left nostril your right
close your left nostril your right
nostril is open
nostril is open
nostril is open
okay right nostril open this is Surya
okay right nostril open this is Surya
okay right nostril open this is Surya
Nadi now let's take in and out a few
Nadi now let's take in and out a few
Nadi now let's take in and out a few
deep breaths breathe in two three four
deep breaths breathe in two three four
deep breaths breathe in two three four
radar 2 3 4. breathe in two three four
radar 2 3 4. breathe in two three four
radar 2 3 4. breathe in two three four
Veda two three four
Veda two three four
Veda two three four
Within two three four
Within two three four
Within two three four
Ved out two three four relax your hand
Ved out two three four relax your hand
Ved out two three four relax your hand
this was just in small demonstration of
this was just in small demonstration of
this was just in small demonstration of
what we call Surya Nadi pranayama
what we call Surya Nadi pranayama
what we call Surya Nadi pranayama
sometimes called Surya anuloma Panama
sometimes called Surya anuloma Panama
sometimes called Surya anuloma Panama
different names where we are breathing
different names where we are breathing
different names where we are breathing
exclusively through a uni nostril the
exclusively through a uni nostril the
exclusively through a uni nostril the
right Union nostril breathing
right Union nostril breathing
right Union nostril breathing
now similarly we can breathe through the
now similarly we can breathe through the
now similarly we can breathe through the
left uni nostril so with your thumb
left uni nostril so with your thumb
left uni nostril so with your thumb
close your right nostril and let us
close your right nostril and let us
close your right nostril and let us
breathe in and out through the left
breathe in and out through the left
breathe in and out through the left
nostril a few breaths I'm going to
nostril a few breaths I'm going to
nostril a few breaths I'm going to
increase it to six now breathe in two
increase it to six now breathe in two
increase it to six now breathe in two
three four five six breathe out two
three four five six breathe out two
three four five six breathe out two
three four five six breathe in two three
three four five six breathe in two three
three four five six breathe in two three
four five six
four five six
four five six
breathe out two three four five six
breathe out two three four five six
breathe out two three four five six
breathe in two three four five six
breathe in two three four five six
breathe in two three four five six
breathe out two three four five six just
breathe out two three four five six just
breathe out two three four five six just
relax your hand and just sit quietly a
relax your hand and just sit quietly a
relax your hand and just sit quietly a
few seconds I wish I could give you more
few seconds I wish I could give you more
few seconds I wish I could give you more
but
but
but
whenever we have these events we are
whenever we have these events we are
whenever we have these events we are
running short of time
running short of time
running short of time
we're just sitting quietly and just
we're just sitting quietly and just
we're just sitting quietly and just
letting yourself
letting yourself
letting yourself
balance
balance
balance
now what we were doing
now what we were doing
now what we were doing
is basically the union austral breathing
is basically the union austral breathing
is basically the union austral breathing
right and left the right is the soya
right and left the right is the soya
right and left the right is the soya
Nadi left is the Chandra Nadi and if
Nadi left is the Chandra Nadi and if
Nadi left is the Chandra Nadi and if
you're too lazy to put your hand to your
you're too lazy to put your hand to your
you're too lazy to put your hand to your
nose
nose
nose
for whose benefit for your own benefit
for whose benefit for your own benefit
for whose benefit for your own benefit
but anyway if you're too lazy or for
but anyway if you're too lazy or for
but anyway if you're too lazy or for
some reason cannot all you have to do is
some reason cannot all you have to do is
some reason cannot all you have to do is
lie on your side
lie on your side
lie on your side
so if you lie on your side whichever
so if you lie on your side whichever
so if you lie on your side whichever
side is dominant
side is dominant
side is dominant
after about 15 to 20 minutes that
after about 15 to 20 minutes that
after about 15 to 20 minutes that
nostril will become dominant this is
nostril will become dominant this is
nostril will become dominant this is
part of normal physiology and you will
part of normal physiology and you will
part of normal physiology and you will
be performing either Surya Nadi or
be performing either Surya Nadi or
be performing either Surya Nadi or
Chandra Nadi passively
Chandra Nadi passively
Chandra Nadi passively
and so whenever we want to give
and so whenever we want to give
and so whenever we want to give
therapeutic usage of these techniques in
therapeutic usage of these techniques in
therapeutic usage of these techniques in
people who cannot do them because of
people who cannot do them because of
people who cannot do them because of
physical debilitation we give this
physical debilitation we give this
physical debilitation we give this
now what are we doing with these
now what are we doing with these
now what are we doing with these
techniques we are basically influencing
techniques we are basically influencing
techniques we are basically influencing
our right and left brain
our right and left brain
our right and left brain
the right nostril is connected to your
the right nostril is connected to your
the right nostril is connected to your
left brain your left nostril to your
left brain your left nostril to your
left brain your left nostril to your
right vein now you know the secret about
right vein now you know the secret about
right vein now you know the secret about
the brains
the brains
the brains
your left brain is all the stuff you are
your left brain is all the stuff you are
your left brain is all the stuff you are
doing to get things
doing to get things
doing to get things
okay money logic calculation how can I
okay money logic calculation how can I
okay money logic calculation how can I
get more people to sign on to my
get more people to sign on to my
get more people to sign on to my
lectures how can I get more students how
lectures how can I get more students how
lectures how can I get more students how
can I get more money and all of that is
can I get more money and all of that is
can I get more money and all of that is
the left the right is how can I give
the left the right is how can I give
the left the right is how can I give
more how can I give better so the giving
more how can I give better so the giving
more how can I give better so the giving
part of you is your right
part of you is your right
part of you is your right
and the getting part is your left
and the getting part is your left
and the getting part is your left
this is a very small simplification but
this is a very small simplification but
this is a very small simplification but
I like to put it that way and of course
I like to put it that way and of course
I like to put it that way and of course
if you look at your left it's very dull
if you look at your left it's very dull
if you look at your left it's very dull
because you are so busy getting you have
because you are so busy getting you have
because you are so busy getting you have
no time to appreciate what you have got
no time to appreciate what you have got
no time to appreciate what you have got
but when you start to give you start to
but when you start to give you start to
but when you start to give you start to
appreciate more and more because the
appreciate more and more because the
appreciate more and more because the
more you give the more you get
more you give the more you get
more you give the more you get
I just told you the secret my father
I just told you the secret my father
I just told you the secret my father
taught me as a small kid
taught me as a small kid
taught me as a small kid
the more you give the more you get
the more you give the more you get
the more you give the more you get
it doesn't matter whether it is
it doesn't matter whether it is
it doesn't matter whether it is
physically mentally emotionally or
physically mentally emotionally or
physically mentally emotionally or
spiritually
spiritually
spiritually
the more respect you give the more
the more respect you give the more
the more respect you give the more
respect you get the more love you give
respect you get the more love you give
respect you get the more love you give
the more love you get the more help you
the more love you get the more help you
the more love you get the more help you
give the more help you get the more
give the more help you get the more
give the more help you get the more
health and wellness and happiness you
health and wellness and happiness you
health and wellness and happiness you
give the more you get
give the more you get
give the more you get
now again don't give because you are
now again don't give because you are
now again don't give because you are
going to get
going to get
going to get
don't again put the card paper give
don't again put the card paper give
don't again put the card paper give
because you are a human being and human
because you are a human being and human
because you are a human being and human
beings should give we are the givers
beings should give we are the givers
beings should give we are the givers
and somehow it's been built into the
and somehow it's been built into the
and somehow it's been built into the
women
women
women
to give more they sort of have an
to give more they sort of have an
to give more they sort of have an
inherent genetic tendency to give more
inherent genetic tendency to give more
inherent genetic tendency to give more
and I wish we men could develop that
and I wish we men could develop that
and I wish we men could develop that
more and I hope you women will not stop
more and I hope you women will not stop
more and I hope you women will not stop
that
that
that
because the moment you stop that the
because the moment you stop that the
because the moment you stop that the
world is going to be a very difficult
world is going to be a very difficult
world is going to be a very difficult
place because if we all are getting
place because if we all are getting
place because if we all are getting
getting getting where are we going to
getting getting where are we going to
getting getting where are we going to
get it from
get it from
get it from
huh anyway so when you are doing your
huh anyway so when you are doing your
huh anyway so when you are doing your
right nostril breathing you are helping
right nostril breathing you are helping
right nostril breathing you are helping
the getting part of you because you need
the getting part of you because you need
the getting part of you because you need
to have enough to survive the joke goes
to have enough to survive the joke goes
to have enough to survive the joke goes
when you're totally in your left brain
when you're totally in your left brain
when you're totally in your left brain
there's nothing right about it
there's nothing right about it
there's nothing right about it
but when you are totally in your right
but when you are totally in your right
but when you are totally in your right
brain there's nothing left
brain there's nothing left
brain there's nothing left
it's actually a very good way to think
it's actually a very good way to think
it's actually a very good way to think
about it because you need to have
about it because you need to have
about it because you need to have
something at the end of the day you need
something at the end of the day you need
something at the end of the day you need
a house you need a car you need you will
a house you need a car you need you will
a house you need a car you need you will
need some things
need some things
need some things
so that is fine but then where does need
so that is fine but then where does need
so that is fine but then where does need
stop and where does greed begin very
stop and where does greed begin very
stop and where does greed begin very
very thin line and for most of us there
very thin line and for most of us there
very thin line and for most of us there
is no line
is no line
is no line
it's it's all greed
it's it's all greed
it's it's all greed
the sort of the three line is the need
the sort of the three line is the need
the sort of the three line is the need
so what we are learning through the
so what we are learning through the
so what we are learning through the
right nostril and left nostril breathing
right nostril and left nostril breathing
right nostril and left nostril breathing
and the alternate nostril is balance
and the alternate nostril is balance
and the alternate nostril is balance
ourselves balance our giving in our
ourselves balance our giving in our
ourselves balance our giving in our
getting balance who we are and when we
getting balance who we are and when we
getting balance who we are and when we
are balanced we can be a better human
are balanced we can be a better human
are balanced we can be a better human
being now the second thing which is one
being now the second thing which is one
being now the second thing which is one
of our popular things and all of you
of our popular things and all of you
of our popular things and all of you
have done many times is I'm going to ask
have done many times is I'm going to ask
have done many times is I'm going to ask
you to all please stand up
you to all please stand up
you to all please stand up
we are going to shake up our tensions as
we are going to shake up our tensions as
we are going to shake up our tensions as
we don't have much time we will only do
we don't have much time we will only do
we don't have much time we will only do
both hands not right and left but just
both hands not right and left but just
both hands not right and left but just
give a good Shake shaking up all your
give a good Shake shaking up all your
give a good Shake shaking up all your
tensions their attentions sticking to us
tensions their attentions sticking to us
tensions their attentions sticking to us
we don't want to keep our tensions again
we don't want to keep our tensions again
we don't want to keep our tensions again
it's part of that give them up and we
it's part of that give them up and we
it's part of that give them up and we
keep on wanting more and more tensions
keep on wanting more and more tensions
keep on wanting more and more tensions
and grabbing all our tensions and some
and grabbing all our tensions and some
and grabbing all our tensions and some
people are so tight they don't want to
people are so tight they don't want to
people are so tight they don't want to
let go of the tensions also because
let go of the tensions also because
let go of the tensions also because
they'll fall apart now as fast as
they'll fall apart now as fast as
they'll fall apart now as fast as
possible as fast as possible and we have
possible as fast as possible and we have
possible as fast as possible and we have
very good plastic surgery Department
very good plastic surgery Department
very good plastic surgery Department
here so in case your fingers fall off
here so in case your fingers fall off
here so in case your fingers fall off
we'll reattach them so fine now catch
we'll reattach them so fine now catch
we'll reattach them so fine now catch
hold of all your tensions take in a deep
hold of all your tensions take in a deep
hold of all your tensions take in a deep
breath
breath
breath
and throw it out
just let your hands be by your side and
just let your hands be by your side and
just let your hands be by your side and
enjoy
enjoy
enjoy
enjoy a sense of lightness
enjoy a sense of lightness
enjoy a sense of lightness
when you have thrown off your tensions
when you have thrown off your tensions
when you have thrown off your tensions
you don't have to hold them anymore they
you don't have to hold them anymore they
you don't have to hold them anymore they
don't have to weigh you down
don't have to weigh you down
don't have to weigh you down
you're not bogged down by your tensions
you're not bogged down by your tensions
you're not bogged down by your tensions
and stresses anymore
and stresses anymore
and stresses anymore
it's a positive choice to throw them out
it's a positive choice to throw them out
it's a positive choice to throw them out
show them they don't belong within you
again one more time
again one more time
again one more time
because we
because we
because we
we always need to practice practice
we always need to practice practice
we always need to practice practice
makes perfect and we doctors are always
makes perfect and we doctors are always
makes perfect and we doctors are always
practicing
practicing
practicing
we are never perfect we're always
we are never perfect we're always
we are never perfect we're always
practicing
practicing
practicing
Medical Practice watch out we have
Medical Practice watch out we have
Medical Practice watch out we have
already told you what we are doing right
already told you what we are doing right
already told you what we are doing right
we're just practicing okay okay nice
we're just practicing okay okay nice
we're just practicing okay okay nice
fast one fast fast as fast as possible
fast one fast fast as fast as possible
fast one fast fast as fast as possible
fast look at my fingers you cannot even
fast look at my fingers you cannot even
fast look at my fingers you cannot even
see them right yeah now catch hold of
see them right yeah now catch hold of
see them right yeah now catch hold of
those tensions
those tensions
those tensions
throw them out
throw them out
throw them out
now just sit down and in your serrated
now just sit down and in your serrated
now just sit down and in your serrated
position just sit quietly
position just sit quietly
position just sit quietly
and enjoy that feeling of relaxation
and enjoy that feeling of relaxation
and enjoy that feeling of relaxation
that comes when you throw it out
that comes when you throw it out
that comes when you throw it out
when you throw your garbage out
when you throw your garbage out
when you throw your garbage out
we throw out our physical garbage but we
we throw out our physical garbage but we
we throw out our physical garbage but we
don't throw out our mental garbage our
don't throw out our mental garbage our
don't throw out our mental garbage our
emotional garbage which is so much more
emotional garbage which is so much more
emotional garbage which is so much more
dangerous the mental and emotional
dangerous the mental and emotional
dangerous the mental and emotional
garbage we carry around
garbage we carry around
garbage we carry around
it's really pathetic
it's really pathetic
it's really pathetic
because we don't throw it out yeah so to
because we don't throw it out yeah so to
because we don't throw it out yeah so to
my property
my property
my property
and stop identifying with your stresses
and stop identifying with your stresses
and stop identifying with your stresses
and deal with them as they should be
and deal with them as they should be
and deal with them as they should be
they are just junk throw them out don't
they are just junk throw them out don't
they are just junk throw them out don't
keep them within
now there's a very nice practice which I
now there's a very nice practice which I
now there's a very nice practice which I
thought we will do and we'll be ending
thought we will do and we'll be ending
thought we will do and we'll be ending
with this today
with this today
with this today
is to help work on the different centers
is to help work on the different centers
is to help work on the different centers
we have different centers in the body
we have different centers in the body
we have different centers in the body
called the chakras
called the chakras
called the chakras
and these are all along the mid spinal
and these are all along the mid spinal
and these are all along the mid spinal
area the main ones now there are minor
area the main ones now there are minor
area the main ones now there are minor
ones all over the body but the major
ones all over the body but the major
ones all over the body but the major
ones along this spine and that is why we
ones along this spine and that is why we
ones along this spine and that is why we
human beings need to have a healthy
human beings need to have a healthy
human beings need to have a healthy
spine so that the energy can move freely
spine so that the energy can move freely
spine so that the energy can move freely
and what we want to do is that we are
and what we want to do is that we are
and what we want to do is that we are
going to be breathing in and we are
going to be breathing in and we are
going to be breathing in and we are
going to stretch up
going to stretch up
going to stretch up
then we are going to breathe out bring
then we are going to breathe out bring
then we are going to breathe out bring
the hands onto the top of the head
the hands onto the top of the head
the hands onto the top of the head
breathe in
breathe in
breathe in
bring it to the forehead as you breathe
bring it to the forehead as you breathe
bring it to the forehead as you breathe
out
breathe in at the forehead
breathe in at the forehead
breathe in at the forehead
breathe out and bring it to the throat
breathe out and bring it to the throat
breathe out and bring it to the throat
breathe in at the throat
breathe in at the throat
breathe in at the throat
and bring it down to the chest
and bring it down to the chest
and bring it down to the chest
so again we are going to repeat breathe
so again we are going to repeat breathe
so again we are going to repeat breathe
in and stretch up
breathe out onto the top of the hand
breathe out onto the top of the hand
breathe out onto the top of the hand
breathe in at the top of the head
breathe in at the top of the head
breathe in at the top of the head
breathe out and bring it to the forehand
breathe in at the forehead
breathe in at the forehead
breathe in at the forehead
out into the throat
in at the Third
in at the Third
in at the Third
and out at the chest
and out at the chest
and out at the chest
and a third time to make sure we have
and a third time to make sure we have
and a third time to make sure we have
done it to the best of our ability
done it to the best of our ability
done it to the best of our ability
stretching up breathe in
out top of the head
in at the top of the hand
out at the forehand
in at the forehead
in at the forehead
in at the forehead
out the throat
in at the throat
in at the throat
in at the throat
and out back to the chest
and out back to the chest
and out back to the chest
just relaxing your hands again this
just relaxing your hands again this
just relaxing your hands again this
practice we are working with these
practice we are working with these
practice we are working with these
energy centers we have a heart we have a
energy centers we have a heart we have a
energy centers we have a heart we have a
base spinal center we have
base spinal center we have
base spinal center we have
centers coming up but here primarily we
centers coming up but here primarily we
centers coming up but here primarily we
are working with the heart center the
are working with the heart center the
are working with the heart center the
third Center the brow Center and the
third Center the brow Center and the
third Center the brow Center and the
cranial Center so four of the centers
cranial Center so four of the centers
cranial Center so four of the centers
and when you stretch up like this it is
and when you stretch up like this it is
and when you stretch up like this it is
an act where you are saying I am
an act where you are saying I am
an act where you are saying I am
connecting with that Universe this is a
connecting with that Universe this is a
connecting with that Universe this is a
connect thing with the higher and that
connect thing with the higher and that
connect thing with the higher and that
is why this is the gesture we always
is why this is the gesture we always
is why this is the gesture we always
have kept in our culture for divine you
have kept in our culture for divine you
have kept in our culture for divine you
don't go and greet somebody like this in
don't go and greet somebody like this in
don't go and greet somebody like this in
an office unless you're going to a
an office unless you're going to a
an office unless you're going to a
politician and want something from them
politician and want something from them
politician and want something from them
okay
okay
okay
all right you know this is for the
all right you know this is for the
all right you know this is for the
Divinity this is also for Divinity
Divinity this is also for Divinity
Divinity this is also for Divinity
because these are the higher centers now
because these are the higher centers now
because these are the higher centers now
this is the center where we become human
this is the center where we become human
this is the center where we become human
the again chakra is where we go from
the again chakra is where we go from
the again chakra is where we go from
being an animal a spinal being to having
being an animal a spinal being to having
being an animal a spinal being to having
a higher Consciousness and this is the
a higher Consciousness and this is the
a higher Consciousness and this is the
place where you start to tap into your
place where you start to tap into your
place where you start to tap into your
humanness being a human being not a
humanness being a human being not a
humanness being a human being not a
human doing but a human being
human doing but a human being
human doing but a human being
this is the center of Purity this is the
this is the center of Purity this is the
this is the center of Purity this is the
center of compassion empathy where you
center of compassion empathy where you
center of compassion empathy where you
can connect with others and these are
can connect with others and these are
can connect with others and these are
the centers we need to develop these
the centers we need to develop these
the centers we need to develop these
lower centers are more shared with the
lower centers are more shared with the
lower centers are more shared with the
animals and us we need to work on them
animals and us we need to work on them
animals and us we need to work on them
but we have a lot of animal in us
but we have a lot of animal in us
but we have a lot of animal in us
already right
already right
already right
but what about the human in us and then
but what about the human in us and then
but what about the human in us and then
what about the Divine in US and that is
what about the Divine in US and that is
what about the Divine in US and that is
why this very simple practice is good
why this very simple practice is good
why this very simple practice is good
for the shoulders good for the neck it's
for the shoulders good for the neck it's
for the shoulders good for the neck it's
a good stretch you know physical
a good stretch you know physical
a good stretch you know physical
benefits are one side but more
benefits are one side but more
benefits are one side but more
importantly you are connecting and yoga
importantly you are connecting and yoga
importantly you are connecting and yoga
is all about connectivity finding the
is all about connectivity finding the
is all about connectivity finding the
connectivity and
yeah
yeah
yeah
finding the connectivity and just being
finding the connectivity and just being
finding the connectivity and just being
connected with everyone everything in
connected with everyone everything in
connected with everyone everything in
the universe the last thing for today is
the universe the last thing for today is
the universe the last thing for today is
what is called my favorite practice
what is called my favorite practice
what is called my favorite practice
where we are going to tense ourselves as
where we are going to tense ourselves as
where we are going to tense ourselves as
much as possible and then we are going
much as possible and then we are going
much as possible and then we are going
to let go and relax
to let go and relax
to let go and relax
tension relaxation coupling okay
tension relaxation coupling okay
tension relaxation coupling okay
so what we are going to do from the
so what we are going to do from the
so what we are going to do from the
seated position start to tense your toes
seated position start to tense your toes
seated position start to tense your toes
your ankles your calf muscles your knees
your ankles your calf muscles your knees
your ankles your calf muscles your knees
your thighs the gluteal the hip the
your thighs the gluteal the hip the
your thighs the gluteal the hip the
abdomen the chest the lower back the
abdomen the chest the lower back the
abdomen the chest the lower back the
upper back now start to tense your
upper back now start to tense your
upper back now start to tense your
fingers your arms your forearms
fingers your arms your forearms
fingers your arms your forearms
the shoulders the neck now your face
the shoulders the neck now your face
the shoulders the neck now your face
make it as tense as possible hold this
make it as tense as possible hold this
make it as tense as possible hold this
tension tension tension tension tension
tension tension tension tension tension
tension tension tension tension tension
tension and then let
tension and then let
tension and then let
go
it's always good to do it lying down or
it's always good to do it lying down or
it's always good to do it lying down or
sitting standing you know the danger is
sitting standing you know the danger is
sitting standing you know the danger is
you get so he likes to fall off this
you get so he likes to fall off this
you get so he likes to fall off this
stage and that will be quite a
stage and that will be quite a
stage and that will be quite a
demonstration right Dr another falling
demonstration right Dr another falling
demonstration right Dr another falling
off the stage losing balance after
off the stage losing balance after
off the stage losing balance after
talking about balance again let's do
talking about balance again let's do
talking about balance again let's do
this huh from your toes tense your toes
this huh from your toes tense your toes
this huh from your toes tense your toes
your feet your ankles
your feet your ankles
your feet your ankles
coming up to the knees the thighs the
coming up to the knees the thighs the
coming up to the knees the thighs the
hips the abdomen the thorax the back now
hips the abdomen the thorax the back now
hips the abdomen the thorax the back now
your fingers your forearms your elbows
your fingers your forearms your elbows
your fingers your forearms your elbows
arms shoulders neck now your face your
arms shoulders neck now your face your
arms shoulders neck now your face your
eyes ears everything has turns stands
eyes ears everything has turns stands
eyes ears everything has turns stands
tense tense tents and let go
just enjoy the relaxation response that
just enjoy the relaxation response that
just enjoy the relaxation response that
you can
you can
you can
tap into when you do this
tension relaxation
you can trigger your own relaxation
you can trigger your own relaxation
you can trigger your own relaxation
response
response
response
and remember it is in relaxation that we
and remember it is in relaxation that we
and remember it is in relaxation that we
heal
heal
heal
no healing occurs when we are tense
no healing occurs when we are tense
no healing occurs when we are tense
healing only occurs when we are relaxed
healing only occurs when we are relaxed
healing only occurs when we are relaxed
one of the greatest contributions yoga
one of the greatest contributions yoga
one of the greatest contributions yoga
can give health professionals
can give health professionals
can give health professionals
is in teaching us how to relax
one last time you have to earn your
one last time you have to earn your
one last time you have to earn your
lunch
lunch
lunch
okay so put in your best effort those 10
okay so put in your best effort those 10
okay so put in your best effort those 10
stands your feet your ankles your knees
stands your feet your ankles your knees
stands your feet your ankles your knees
your thighs your hips
your thighs your hips
your thighs your hips
abdomen chest back
abdomen chest back
abdomen chest back
fingers the whole hand arm forearm the
fingers the whole hand arm forearm the
fingers the whole hand arm forearm the
shoulder the neck the face as tense
shoulder the neck the face as tense
shoulder the neck the face as tense
tense tense tense tens tents and lit
enjoy the feeling of relaxation
enjoy the feeling of relaxation
enjoy the feeling of relaxation
breathe in a regular simple manner
breathe in a regular simple manner
breathe in a regular simple manner
and just let a feeling of relaxation
and just let a feeling of relaxation
and just let a feeling of relaxation
seep into every cell of your body
seep into every cell of your body
seep into every cell of your body
every part of your physical mental and
every part of your physical mental and
every part of your physical mental and
emotional makeup
emotional makeup
emotional makeup
creating a sense of wholesomeness
creating a sense of wholesomeness
creating a sense of wholesomeness
wholesomeness is health
wholesomeness is health
wholesomeness is health
wholesomeness is joy happiness
wholesomeness is joy happiness
wholesomeness is joy happiness
when we can be
when we can be
when we can be
invigorated with a sense of
invigorated with a sense of
invigorated with a sense of
wholesomeness
wholesomeness
wholesomeness
we can be the best we can be
I close with a prayer
I close with a prayer
I close with a prayer
for the universal well-being
when we pray for Universal well-being
when we pray for Universal well-being
when we pray for Universal well-being
happiness in the universe joy in the
happiness in the universe joy in the
happiness in the universe joy in the
universe we don't have to ask for
universe we don't have to ask for
universe we don't have to ask for
ourselves
ourselves
ourselves
let all beings be happy well at ease let
let all beings be happy well at ease let
let all beings be happy well at ease let
them be the best they can be
[Applause]
oh
[Applause]
foreign
[Music]
thank you very much
thank you very much
thank you very much
[Applause]

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 10 =====

Kind: captions
Language: en
press the legs down lift the sacrum the
press the legs down lift the sacrum the
press the legs down lift the sacrum the
chest up spread all the toes that's the
chest up spread all the toes that's the
chest up spread all the toes that's the
first thing David cuz you don't have any
first thing David cuz you don't have any
first thing David cuz you don't have any
Consciousness there join the big toes
Consciousness there join the big toes
Consciousness there join the big toes
join spread all the 10 toes Spread
join spread all the 10 toes Spread
join spread all the 10 toes Spread
spread small toe ring
spread small toe ring
spread small toe ring
toe only the big toes
toe only the big toes
toe only the big toes
jumping jump all the toes the right toes
jumping jump all the toes the right toes
jumping jump all the toes the right toes
are only working a little bit the left
are only working a little bit the left
are only working a little bit the left
toes are dull still come get them work
toes are dull still come get them work
toes are dull still come get them work
like that see this is just
like that see this is just
like that see this is just
Miro he hasn't spread his toes to n it's
Miro he hasn't spread his toes to n it's
Miro he hasn't spread his toes to n it's
still on his
still on his
still on his
list number one it's number
list number one it's number
list number one it's number
one marasa one bend the right knee up
one marasa one bend the right knee up
one marasa one bend the right knee up
bring the heel close
bring the heel close
bring the heel close
in wrap the right arm in front of your
in wrap the right arm in front of your
in wrap the right arm in front of your
right shin hold both the hands behind
right shin hold both the hands behind
right shin hold both the hands behind
your back and both shoulders evenly
your back and both shoulders evenly
your back and both shoulders evenly
forward and Bend
forward and Bend
forward and Bend
forward if you can catch the hands easy
forward if you can catch the hands easy
forward if you can catch the hands easy
then catch the wrist now you tend to
then catch the wrist now you tend to
then catch the wrist now you tend to
tilt on that outer left heel just hold
tilt on that outer left heel just hold
tilt on that outer left heel just hold
both hands to the foot Ramona that's
both hands to the foot Ramona that's
both hands to the foot Ramona that's
actually a way to do it don't pull the
actually a way to do it don't pull the
actually a way to do it don't pull the
toes extend the inner edge of the left
toes extend the inner edge of the left
toes extend the inner edge of the left
foot forward get both the shoulders
foot forward get both the shoulders
foot forward get both the shoulders
evenly forward Jr that left shoulder has
evenly forward Jr that left shoulder has
evenly forward Jr that left shoulder has
to come forward now Slide the right
to come forward now Slide the right
to come forward now Slide the right
shoulder down the right leg the right
shoulder down the right leg the right
shoulder down the right leg the right
shoulder should slide down that right
shoulder should slide down that right
shoulder should slide down that right
leg soften the abdomen away from your
leg soften the abdomen away from your
leg soften the abdomen away from your
right leg lift the outer right shin and
right leg lift the outer right shin and
right leg lift the outer right shin and
thigh up Becky and roll the outer right
thigh up Becky and roll the outer right
thigh up Becky and roll the outer right
knee
knee
knee
in head down
in head down
in head down
what
what
what
happened okay come up this one wasn't so
happened okay come up this one wasn't so
happened okay come up this one wasn't so
good stretch the right leg straight bend
good stretch the right leg straight bend
good stretch the right leg straight bend
the left knee
up it's a simple but hard one you know I
up it's a simple but hard one you know I
up it's a simple but hard one you know I
remember the first I do remember the
remember the first I do remember the
remember the first I do remember the
first time I ever did this I couldn't
first time I ever did this I couldn't
first time I ever did this I couldn't
understand why I couldn't bend forward
understand why I couldn't bend forward
understand why I couldn't bend forward
anymore I thought I bent forward fine
anymore I thought I bent forward fine
anymore I thought I bent forward fine
I've been wondering that for 20 years 20
I've been wondering that for 20 years 20
I've been wondering that for 20 years 20
years see the list nothing o nothing
years see the list nothing o nothing
years see the list nothing o nothing
yeah yeah reach the left arm forward
yeah yeah reach the left arm forward
yeah yeah reach the left arm forward
then wrap the hands behind you yeah
then wrap the hands behind you yeah
then wrap the hands behind you yeah
extend the inner edge of the right foot
extend the inner edge of the right foot
extend the inner edge of the right foot
forward abdomen soft don't put a Break
forward abdomen soft don't put a Break
forward abdomen soft don't put a Break
by hardening the abdomen brain cells
by hardening the abdomen brain cells
by hardening the abdomen brain cells
quiet also the brain cells shouldn't put
quiet also the brain cells shouldn't put
quiet also the brain cells shouldn't put
a break get the back of the right knee
a break get the back of the right knee
a break get the back of the right knee
on the floor now soften the abdomen it
on the floor now soften the abdomen it
on the floor now soften the abdomen it
shouldn't go towards the left leg it
shouldn't go towards the left leg it
shouldn't go towards the left leg it
should go away from the left leg lift
should go away from the left leg lift
should go away from the left leg lift
the outer left shin and thigh up roll
the outer left shin and thigh up roll
the outer left shin and thigh up roll
the right left knee in go forward any
the right left knee in go forward any
the right left knee in go forward any
amount possible lengthen the sternum
amount possible lengthen the sternum
amount possible lengthen the sternum
forward press the left he move the left
forward press the left he move the left
forward press the left he move the left
knee forward to go forward that's
knee forward to go forward that's
knee forward to go forward that's
it finally okay now come up both legs
[Music]
straight yeah reach the left arm forward
straight yeah reach the left arm forward
straight yeah reach the left arm forward
then wrap the hands behind you yeah
then wrap the hands behind you yeah
then wrap the hands behind you yeah
extend the inner edge of the right foot
extend the inner edge of the right foot
extend the inner edge of the right foot
forward abdomen soft don't put a Break
forward abdomen soft don't put a Break
forward abdomen soft don't put a Break
by hardening the abdomen Aben brain
by hardening the abdomen Aben brain
by hardening the abdomen Aben brain
cells quiet also the brain cells
cells quiet also the brain cells
cells quiet also the brain cells
shouldn't put a break get the back of
shouldn't put a break get the back of
shouldn't put a break get the back of
the right knee on the floor now soften
the right knee on the floor now soften
the right knee on the floor now soften
the abdomen it shouldn't go towards the
the abdomen it shouldn't go towards the
the abdomen it shouldn't go towards the
left leg it should go away from the left
left leg it should go away from the left
left leg it should go away from the left
leg lift the outer left shin and thigh
leg lift the outer left shin and thigh
leg lift the outer left shin and thigh
up roll the right left knee in go
up roll the right left knee in go
up roll the right left knee in go
forward any amount possible lengthen the
forward any amount possible lengthen the
forward any amount possible lengthen the
sternum forward press the left heel move
sternum forward press the left heel move
sternum forward press the left heel move
the left knee forward to go forward
the left knee forward to go forward
the left knee forward to go forward
that's it

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 11 =====

for a whole different reason, but I just thought I'd pop in and say hi. I'm Komal and a very warm welcome to all of you. And also to all of these lovely women here that I see a very happy Women's Day. Uh we're about to begin in a few minutes, so kindly bear with us. I know it's a lovely Sunday morning and we're just about to begin in a few more minutes. Please give a huge round of applause for the one and only Shilpa Shetty. >> [cheering] >> A LOUDER CHEER, GUYS. SHILPA SHETTY is here. >> [cheering] >> Welcome, Shilpa. The sands, the beautiful sea, the Sunday, and the crowd is all yours. Thank you very much. A very, very good morning and happy Women's Day, all you wonderful souls. Are we all set? Well, um I said why wait for yoga day? >> [laughter] >> Isn't this a great day to celebrate ourselves? And what's the best gift that we can give ourselves? Good health. We kind of underestimate the power of of health and we start taking care of ourselves only once we get a prescription or if you're diagnosed with something. Um I've always believed and I've always said that precaution is better than cure. And I just feel that women are the runners of of the home, of people's lives. Uh if we don't stay fit and if we aren't strong, and I really believe when it comes to strength, we are uh blessed with grace, strength, and resilience. But, how do we How do we maintain it? That will only happen if it comes with balance. And how do we maintain balance? If you are aligned. You have to be aligned with your mind, your body, and your soul. And how do we align ourselves? The single most easiest way and holistic way through yoga. So, I said, "Why don't we gift ourselves this one thing today?" Uh and value ourselves. And I can see I can see some men as well. Takes very confident men to come out here today and participate. A big round of applause for them as well. See, we're being inclusive. I said, "Why why celebrate only the women?" Because strong women make strong men. Always remember that. And strong men also make stronger women. So, thank you for being here. There's only two reasons you could be here, either for the love of your woman or for the love of yoga. Whatever rocks your boat, I'm good. >> [laughter] >> Thank you so much, guys. Let's Let's start. Wow, Gaurav. Loving the quads. Are we all set? So, we're going to do something very very basic. And also, to join me today on stage because I can't be doing uh the asanas and speaking to you together. So, I will have and introduce my yoga teacher Raj Panigrahi on stage. Please give him a big round of applause. The man behind my asanas. Happy Wednesday. Yeah. So, are we all set? So, first and foremost everyone stand up. Yoga going to happen here. >> [laughter] >> Okay. Whenever you start any exercise, always remember warm-up is extremely extremely important, okay? So, we start from the top with neck exercises. All right? Look to your right. Then your left. Right. Left. Right. Stretch. Left. Look in front. Now, up and down, okay? Up. Down. Up. Down. Up. And down. Now, we rotate, okay? Start from your right. Look down. Look left. Look up. Look right. Repeat the same thing five times. That's clockwise. And now you go anti-clockwise. Okay? Set. Okay. Yeah. Nice. Okay? Backwards. Never do any sudden movements. Prepare your body for exercise. The other hand. Anti-clockwise. Good job. Okay? And now both hands. Well done. Well done. Super. Super. Okay? Now, hip rotations. Okay? Well done. Five each side. The other side. Now we do side stretches. Well done. >> Now, just rotate your knees. Okay? Yeah. Nice. Five on each side. Keep your legs joined together. Okay? Now, calf raises. Okay? Your calf actually is like your second heart. You must do this. You must tell even your moms to do this and your dads. This is the best exercise to pump, you know, your heart with a better blood flow. Great job. Okay. Now, just shake your legs. Okay, this is my favorite bit. Now, we just do spot jumps. Okay? Yeah. Just leave yourself loose. Enjoy it. Shake off all the negativity. Yeah. Get into it. Both your hands. Loosen up. Super super super super. Enjoy it. Smiles on your face. Woo! Fab. Are we all warmed up now? Yeah. Well done. Now? New energy, new energy. New energy, new energy. Come on. Fab. Okay. Now we've cleansed the the energy in the surrounding. Now we're set for yoga. >> [laughter] >> All right. So we start with Tadasana. >> [clears throat] >> Please look at Raj and see the form because I'm also speaking to you. Yes. Join your legs. Raise your hands. Breathe [clears throat] in and come up. Stretch upwards. Try to balance. Breathe normally. Breathe out and slowly come down. The next one is Padasana. It is a forward bending pose. If you have a back pain or slip disc, avoid this. Okay? Raise your hands. Inhale. While exhaling, go down. Try to touch your toes. Try to touch the floor. You can hold your ankle and try to pull the Try to get the nose between the knees. And here, breathe normally. Now inhale, breathe in, come [snorts] up. Breathe out. Bring your hands down. Now we do Vrikshasana. >> [clears throat] >> Stand tall like the trees around you. This is a great pose to see how focused you are and how much you can balance. We balance a lot of things in life. Let's see if you can balance the asana. Look ahead. Breathe normally. 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 Good. Relax. Well done. Now the other leg. Try to find the balance. Look ahead. 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 Relax. Nice. The men and the women, yeah? So we do the side one first and then we go into the upward stretch, okay? Virabhadrasana. Front toes facing forward and the back leg toes facing on the side. Now, raise your hands. Don't let your posture torso go ahead. Keep it aligned. Stay. Breathe normally. Okay, relax. Change your leg. Okay. Breathe normally. Hold the position. Don't let the knee crossing your toe. Relax. Come back. I will show you the asana now and this is the advanced Virabhadrasana. Keep the back leg knees straighten and arch. Come on, everybody. Breathe normally. Hold the position. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Relax. Change your leg. Join the palms. Breathe in up. Arch. Look up. Breathe normally. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Relax. Good. The next pose is Utkatasana, which is the chair pose. Okay? Yeah. First, we do it simply like you're about to sit on a chair, and then we do the one leg Utkatasana. Okay? Shoulder width distance. Yeah. This is great for the glutes. Great for your quads. Balance. Keep the back straight, chest up. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Relax. 5 6 7 Well done. And breathe. >> [laughter] >> Okay. Next is Malasana. Great You know, for the digestive for your digestive organs. And great for your hormone health. Go down, girls. Like this. Your knees out. Spine straight. Heels on the ground as well. If you can't, you're uncomfortable, your entire foot has to be on the ground. Ah, yes. Well done. And breathe. Breathing must be constant. Fabulous. Now you can come up. Body moves. Five times. Now reverse. [snorts] Try avoiding the bend in your elbows. So, a lot of people are doing it like this. Hands have to be straight. Now we do Janu Sirsasana, but Gatyatmak. So, we just Dynamically. Both the hands up. >> the dynamic thing. So, just head to the knees. >> When you bend forward, exhale. Breathe out. Breathe in up. Breathe out. Breathe in. Breathe out when you bend forward. Alternate. Left and right. Five five times. Okay. Relax. Now we do Shishupalasana. Great for your IT band and your quads. Is that a face I can I recognize? Oh, hi. Okay. Is it okay? >> This is ex, okay? Yeah, you can hold either way like this or this way. Yeah. Cradle it, rock it, and you'll feel the stretch in your glutes, in your IT band. Now, try touching your toes to your forehead. Legs are stretched. Now, we do titliasana. Well done. Good, huh? You all are the butterflies. >> Well done, guys. Now we do Ardha Matsyendrasana. So no. With the intent and don't come too higher. Keep the upper body low. And just lift the legs up. This much. A lot of people are doing this. So then it becomes very hard to balance. Yeah. Well done.

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 12 =====

thank you [Music] [Applause] [Applause] [Music] foreign guests request everyone who are standing there near the Gandhi statue this is not the place for standing I request everyone to go and take your position take your position on a yoga mat please clear that area I request everyone please take your petition [Music] is okay [Music] flexible things distinguished participants sisters and brothers my name is Denise starter and I am the Mistress of Ceremonies for today's event here at the U Land North Lawn building Disney World Yogi day 2023 ready nine years can you believe it yoga day 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very warm Sunday nine years [Applause] age 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very warm welcome to each and every one of you joining in person but also to those who are watching or listening to the live webcast this is a very special yoga event I don't have to tell you that because most of you already know we're experiencing a historic moment in time today as we celebrate this ninth anniversary of world yoga day we're honored to be joined by The Honorable prime minister of India Marie Lorenzo Modi [Applause] you'll be here with us very soon this year's theme for World yoga day is we have it right here is a Sanskrit verse which originates from the Indian scriptures and it Loosely translates to the concept that the whole world is one family Yoda's popularity has exploded to every corner of the globe and it only continues to grow we will know that yoga embodies Unity Unity of knowledge or Consciousness and body thought and action restraint and fulfillment heavily between Humanity or human family and all of nature a holistic approach to help well-being as well as experiencing a sense of Joy or balance and peace although we are very familiar with the multitude of benefits that it can have on one single mental and even spiritual thing the fullest and richness of yoga is about discovering a sense of Oneness Oneness between considered Consciousness and the external world but also Oneness with the world in nature a defense connection to the meaning of life in the words of one of the most famous yoga practitioners yoga cultivates the ways of maintaining a balanced attitude in day-to-day life and in our skill in the performance of one's activities I want to share with you a brief overview of today's events as The Honorable prime minister of India arrives will be here with us on this very stage together with Her Excellency the permanent representative of India to the U.N Ambassador ruchira Campbell also we'll discussi who is the president of the United Nations assembly and Eric Adams who is the mayor of the city of New York lesson and we all follow a common yoga teaching so that we can have a yoga practice and experience that at the same time our yoga instructor makes athletes will be leading the demonstration along with the youngsters and these are the ones who deserve a lot of credit I'll call them out so you know who they are the six youngsters will be on the stage with us are send Marie and Gaza lyric tonic insurance both will have other yoasters joining us Below on the North Lawn in this first row some of them are here already and these youngsters are Kahari careless graceful product Wyatt Santiago advice and giving support yes the yoga session will last for roughly 20 minutes and after that The Honorable prime minister story I will announce the arrival of the Prime Minister of India when he arrives at U.N headquarters here and I ask that each and every one of you take position and I expect that everybody will be ready on their yoga mat for the lesson I also request that everyone in our audience to please remain seated please please don't move around in case you need any assistance whatsoever we have volunteers positioned nearby and you will find them they're here to assist you so you have your yellow caps on you take a look around you'll see people with the yellow caps these are our volunteers here to assist should you need to use the facilities while you're here you'll find them to your right next to the Promenade by the East River for our different stations set up for your comfort feel free to talk to where your yoga Day shirts and I see that almost everybody has the mom and you look beautiful today I wish you could see yourself but my eyes looks really very very funny it is gorgeous what a gorgeous group we have today here for World yoga day 2023. yay well how does it get any better than that right I guess the answer is um you may have noticed right here and there is a quote on the clock and if you haven't seen it yet I'll have to this event concludes you may want to take a look and the quote is which says there is no way to peace is the way this does the Blondie G was a special gift called India to the U.S and it's the very first sculpture of foundation here in New York last December back in 2022 when the minister of Journal affairs minister Farr was here but he was chairing for the security Council back in December of 2022. of the Secretary General of the Union Mr Antonio Gutierrez and the president of the 77th unga Mr chavel okoroshi and of course ambassador joined the external affairs minister of the gandhiji statue while the Prime Minister gave us foreign to come and unite within us to feel that in the resource that we have that connection of holy truly all with one another and that connection with the Earth with the Stillness that we all feel okay life I would like before we started the technology friends let us know come to Stillness as they are prime minister joins us to contribute as he does to the gandhiji statue I ask that we remain seated in our father as you can see The Honorable prime minister of India freeing a regular motiji has arrived and he is now being followed by many people and he is now being followed by many people thank you thank you [Music] foreign thank you for continuing to stay in your spot and be seated we will start the program very shortly and again if you need any assistance whatsoever we have our volunteers standing by to help they're wearing their yellow caps so that you may identify them easily you can see many sculptures that we have here on the North Lawn but today the gandhiji statue is one that is so dear to many of us here the principles that he holds and the concept of ahimsa is one that many of us are very familiar with that many world leaders are embodying and we see this as we look around to many people who aim to be the change that they want to see in the world together [Applause] twenty twenty three today [Applause] [Applause] again [Applause] a distinguished world leader I'd like to remind everyone foreign Minister Modi G himself back in December 2014 who introduced the idea of establishing the world of yoga day to U.N General Assembly a record number of 175 member states recognized yoga's Universal appeal and adopted The Landmark resolution while claiming June 21 as International yoga day the day of the summer solstice here in the North so average 21 of June is World yoga day this day provides people everywhere across the globe all of us and everyone watching is opportunities [Music] of practicing your an invaluable gift to the world from India's age [Applause] South celebrated worldwide with the enthusiasm and bigger I will now begin the official part of today's primary investing Ambassador mature candles India's permanent representative to the United Nations to the stage to deliver her opening remarks possible [Applause] distinguished ambassadors distinguished yet and all my dear friends and colleagues from this wonderful audience today's celebrations indeed very very special prime minister Narendra Modi will lead us in doing yoga here and because [Applause] of his leadership and honor his guidance the 21st Street was declared as International yoga day and it is only official therefore that inspiration behind the idea is because today the ceiling multifunctional setting of The United Nations ladies and gentlemen around the world Gather in solidarity it is [Applause] shown Beyond articulation Beyond Time I hope all of you the cherished 21st June this year and hold it close to your heart today and forever thank you [Applause] Ambassador candles for your Rewards it's my turn now to invite The Honorable president of the UN General Assembly Mr Chavez for these days thank you is there any difference between United and also the environment and us the most memorable University lectures I attended is very uncultural traditions of ancient Eastern civilizations they helped me understand that [Applause] despite regarding ourselves as aristocratically a detention from other Villages I also learned the energy in the universe and inside us abide by the single a desirables yogurt [Applause] [Applause] we learn how to make change [Applause] who has already reached a high level of practice the guide which you don't pronounce [Applause] idea just as it needs recognition of moral responsibilities cherishing peace disease especially respective I'm happy but let me apologize which you will show very different [Applause] I'm here thank you very much thank you president for highlighting this transformative and such a very personal day at this time invest [Applause] foreign [Applause] for far too long we have separated it's all emotionally I'm going to go to the boys [Applause] to allowing our children to have breathing exercises in the morning as they start the school day to challenge the mental health there's a larger challenge for all of us [Applause] we cannot become universally connected through the yellow masks we lay on when disconnected as we move throughout communities it was a spirit and emotion some yoga to challenge and fight against War to fight against gender oppression to fight against violence to fight against the lack of clean water to fight against security to fight against the destruction of our planet our connectivity is not only are we connected to our families and our parents we have two mothers one gave birth to us and one sin sustains us yoga keeps us connected to both mothers and connected to each other this International yoga days of international call for us to stand up for humankind across the globe in all living things are proud to be here and I'm International yoga day it's an international call that we would be a leader being in New York City as you are a leader in your own environment thank you for allowing me to Rejoice with you today thank you [Applause] yoga is teachable to the American Spirit we appreciate that perspective and important I'd like now to go to the video message of the U.S Secretary General Antonio Gutierrez who is not available to be with us in person that is here in spirit please let us go to the video tape some of your son welcome back relax foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] despite our differences we are going on this International Day of yoga let us embrace the speed of unity and resolve to the depth of our knowledgeables for people planets and ourselves [Applause] friends [Applause] welcome welcome to no one else [Applause] your Excellency [Applause] has been a relation [Applause] foreign [Music] [Applause] on this fine morning we are together here at the United Nations at the winning point of entire Humanity it was wonderful serious I know many of you have come here from far away most of you have Before Sunrise I'm delighted to see you all and I thank you all for coming friends [Applause] I know that almost every nationality is represented here today and what are the average Gods to bring us all together yoga yoga means in the night so you are coming together in an expression of another form of yoga I remember about nine years ago right here [Music] I have the honor to propose celebrating the International Day of yoga on 21st June it was wonderful to see the entire world came together to support the idea back then to just paid respect for brave when his sleepers in 1950 new Memorial to be built at the UN in that memory and lastly [Music] India make this reality soon at the largest two continuity Nations we are grateful to All Nations for their respiration of support to this Noble God last year the entire world came together to support India's proposal to celebrate 20 1953 at the international year of Village Malay s are a super cool it is good for environment too it is [Music] a very old tradition but like all ancient in Tradition it is also living and dining yoga is free from copyright [Applause] free competence and free from royalty [Music] [Applause] your age gender and Princess lever yoga is forever you can do that at home forever orientally yoga you can practice it alone or in the group love competition thought yoga is unifying City [Applause] and all cultures yoga is truly Universal right when we do yoga will physically fit mentally calm and emotionally content but it is not just about doing exercise on a man Noda is a way of life I've always seen a problem [Music] it made a great mindfulness in thoughts [Music] [Applause] and in nature I am delighted that many of you are working on scientifically validating different aspects of yoga Hindi received away friends I know you are all King to get started well so am I I want to thank the United Nations [Applause] [Music] and the City of New York for all their health and supporting pregnancies success and most of her want to thank you all once again we are the latest news the power of yoga [Applause] happy but also to be kind to ourselves and each other they just use the power of yoga will three days of frenzy a peaceful world and a cleaner theater and sustainable future join hands together to realize the goal of one family one future I conclude with foreign [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] thank you foreign [Applause] [Applause] leave the stage and join us hello [Applause] friends Miss annalize Richmond so that she can join on the stage we're going to prepare the stage so that we can get it ready for our yoga lesson [Applause] I've mentioned before that we'll have six energetic youngsters leading us along with Miss annalize Richmond in this lesson and we have more in the first row here on the Nordic mod joining us so that people behind can also follow that way too thank you foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] and we had a nice green is coming real which makes for a very unpleasant morning for us for a small share in this Collective room I'm delighted now who will now start our yoga session thank you a very warm welcome to our honorable prime minister modiji and dignitaries it is an honor to have you with us in our midst we are delighted namaste [Applause] let us all enter into the world of yoga together can you hear me in the back let's bring our hands together in front of the heart and prayer pose look at the shoulders relaxed and we'll do an invocation together we'll be checking all three times together let's close the eyes [Applause] let's take a deep breath in Focus breathe out and let us check on eat breakfast [Applause] foreign [Applause] [Music] [Music] [Applause] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] foreign [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] when you feel ready and gently open your eyes we'll start our yoga our yoga practice with some loosening exercises to increase the circulation in the body so let's stand up we'll start in summer sticky alert posture so the feet two to three inches apart from each other in parallel [Music] we'll do neck exercises first we careful in case of any neck injuries or cervical spondylitis let's inhale stretch the spine exhale bring the chin to the chest as much as you can all the way to the chest raise the head back up exhale left kitchen and head fall back face to the sky inhale head to the center exhale chin to the chest relax inhale bring the head back to the center exhale let the head go back stretching the front of the neck and one more time inhale to the center exhale to the chest stretch the back of the neck inhale the head to the center you can smile and exhale let the head go back gently open the throat and chest inhale back to the center relax good keep the hands on the waist we'll just put the letter from right to left be careful not to jerk the back of the inhale stand tall exhale turn the chin over the right shoulder look all the way over to the right through the stretch to the left side of the neck inhale back to the center smile exhale the chin over the left shoulder feel the stretch exhale chip over the right shoulder look as far as you can with the eyes inhale back to the center breathe in exhale chin over the left shoulder look to the left good inhale come back to the center and exhale now we'll do trunk twisting to warm up the body and spine be careful of any spinal injuries so let's bring the feet one foot apart [Applause] inhale take the arms out in front of you and it's parallel to each other exhale keep the hips where they are turn just the upper body to the right left Palms towards the right shoulder look to the right good inhale come back to the center Palms facing each other exhale twist the upper body to the left palm facing the left shoulder good inhale come back looking forward Palms facing each other exhale twist just the upper body to the right hook to the right left palm to the right shoulder good inhale come back to the center and exhale to adjust the upper body to the left right arms towards the left yes smile [Applause] yourself a lot now let's start our yoga asanas or yoga pastors we'll start with tadasana the palm tree hospital if you have any arthritis in the lower extremities don't think about your ankles in disaster novel started from a city apart from each other and inhale raise the arms up to shoulder height exhale cross the fingers and push the Palms away from you good inhale raise the arms up exhale here lengthen the spine inhale come up onto the toes and breathe here breathe in and breathe out [Music] breathe out slowly lower down past the hands slowly lift awareness of the body and lower the arms down good and relax and now again posture to take a back bend if you have anywhere to go or back injuries be careful posture let's take the hands [Music] grow tall exhale Slide the fingers back to support the back elbows in parallel behind the back you inhale let the head go back as you exhale Bend from the love bar spine go back and carefully and use the as far back as you can and let's Breathe Here breathe in and breathe out Breathe In and Out awareness of the whole body breathe in and breathe out good inhale lift the chest come back up slowly good cause exhale relax good it feels good take the forward posture posture so keeping the feet in parallel to the three inches apart from each other inhale take the arms up from the front all the way up and hip joint keep the legs straight start to reach forward stretch your fingertips forward until your body is like a table parallel to the ground and now slowly lower the fingertips down bring the hands to The Shins or fingers of the ground or the Palms on the ground if you can drop your head towards your knees let's take a few deep breaths breathe in and down the legs straight breathe in as you breathe out head towards knees breathe in breathe out a little further together and breathe out good inhale Slide the fingertips forward stretch the arms forward let the back come open the arms breathe in slowly all the way up and we'll go to the floor [Applause] [Music] you can just stretch the legs out in front of you put your hands behind your back in a relaxed posture this is our relaxation pose because [Applause] [Music] inhale lengthen your spine good exhale and now some firm posture so be careful in this posture in case of sciatica bring the leaves together those are the feet together I exhale wrap your hands around your feet the inhale sits tall and exhale pull the heels as close as you can to the perineum relax if you like you can even close your eyes I can't breathe in exhale let the knees drop towards the ground inhale and exhale inhale exhale breathe into the full box the gently stretch press [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Applause] [Music] let's take a few deep breaths that the awareness of a whole lot [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] more breath previously [Applause] okay and let's bring our hands onto our lower back [Applause] so let's inhale here bring the elbows to work each other behind the back let the head fall back and then backwards remember back wards the chest to the sky let the head fall back breathe out you is [Applause] one more time and out inhale come back up slowly with awareness good exhale exactly relax forward so we'll take Sasha casana the hair posture so be careful because of osteoarthritis [Applause] inhale open the knees exhale let's put the hand between the legs inhale lengthen your spine and exhale slide forward gently and slowly all the way keeping the hips arms and parallel with each other bring the chin to the ground and relax the whole body if the kid doesn't want to touch the ground break the forehead and relax breathe into your hips breathe in breathe out deep breath in breathe out [Applause] one more gentle breath in and out good inhale come back up slowly with Awareness on the whole body breathe in exhale toes [Applause] inhale take the arms up from the front stretch stretch thigh smile and exhale Bend from the elbows Only The Palms also alternate shoulder blades right palm on the left shoulder blade left palm on the right shoulder blade see if you can keep the chin parallel to the Earth breathe out breathe into the chest [Applause] smile two inhale raise the arms up the exhale [Applause] at the moment you've been waiting for let's slide down onto our knot on our stomach come all the way down make a pillow with the hair turn your head to the right side herself and let them stay out to the side turn the head on to the pants [Applause] [Applause] together take the arms out in front of you okay you can have the resting on the ground be careful of this clothing kick up from here or any abdominal injury inhale bring the hands underneath the shoulder elbows close to the body exhale secure and inhale lift the head to the chest upper chest into the navel and three wheel breath it breathe out relax the shoulders push them down and back breathe in and breathe out breathe in and about one more breath in a little higher and exhale slowly lower down again make the pillow with the hands and that has the time for the left side legs apart [Music] resting in the Sun [Applause] relax Ed [Applause] now gently let's turn onto our back gently rolling everybody [Applause] the wind free and posture so inhale knees out exhale bring the knees to the chest towards the chest inhale press the fingers together place them on The Shins wrap the arms around the legs [Applause] [Music] [Applause] breathe in and breathe out breath awareness and the whole body breathing breathe out one more breath breathe in and exhale release the head down relax the legs and the Arms by your sides arms [Applause] relax the whole body [Applause] I'm aware the Natural Glow and the breath so let's take our attention to our tones [Applause] thank you [Applause] bye right arm and hands High clothes [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] thank you [Applause] foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] Lotus [Applause] [Music] with a spine top a more practice some breathing techniques so the spine tall let's bring our hands and together is a hand position that directs the flow of Prana or energy in the body so index finger and thumb are lightly touchy at the back [Applause] TV will be forcefully Contracting the abdomen and the the air or species out of the nose like this out of the nose the inhalation happens on its own okay we'll take 20 repetitions of kapalabati breathing so let's close the eyes take a deep breath in through the nose and we'll take twenty thousands let's begin relax [Applause] all over the body and you'll feel ready to open your eyes good then we'll do a knotty shoulder knife or alternate nostril breathing so let's bring the left hand into yeah all right foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Music] I'll request everyone whoever is standing on the bridge very shortly having Among Us so I request everyone who are standing there near the Gandhi statue this is not the place for standing I request everyone to go and take your position take your position on a yoga mat please clear that area I request everyone please take your position on a new government here [Music] Excellency participants sisters and brothers my name is Denise starter and I am the Mistress of Ceremonies for today's event here at the U land northlawn Building day 2023 already nine years can you believe it yoga day 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very important [Music] years [Applause] 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very warm welcome to each and every one of you joining in person but also to those who are watching or listening to the live webcast this is a very special yoga event I don't have to tell you that because most of you already know we're experiencing a historic moment in time today as we celebrate this ninth anniversary of world yoga day we're honored to be joined by The Honorable prime minister of India Marie Lorenzo Modi [Applause] he'll be here with us very soon this year's theme for World yoga day is a Sanskrit verse which originates from the Indian scriptures and it Loosely translates to the concept that the whole world is one family Yoda's popularity has exploded to every corner of the globe and it only continues to grow we well know that yoga embodies Unity Unity of minds or Consciousness and body thought and action restraint and fulfillment normally between Humanity a holistic approach to help well-being as well as experiencing a sense of Joy or balance and peace yoga is not only about physical awesomeness or just exercise although we are very familiar with the multitude of benefits that it can have almost the fools and richness of yoga is about the suffering a sense of Oneness fullness between considered Consciousness and the external world but also one is with the world in nature a defense connection to the meaning of life in the words of one of the most famous yoga practitioners yoga cultivates the ways of maintaining a balanced attitude in day-to-day life and in our skill in the performance of one's activities I want to share with you a brief overview of today's events as The Honorable prime minister of India arrives will be here with us on this very stage together with Her Excellency the permanent representative of India to the U.N Ambassador ruchira Campbells who is the president of the United Nations general assembly and this Mr Eric Adams who is the mayor of the city of New York these secretaries will address the scattering briefly but after these remarks we'll begin as a group or yoga lesson and we all follow a common yoga teaching so that we can have a yoga practice and experience that at the same time and these are the ones who deserve a lot of credit I'll call them out so you know who they are because this youngsters will be on the stage with us are send Marie and Gaza lyric tonig insurance whiskey both will have other youngsters joining us Below on the North law in this first row some of them are here already and these youngsters are Kahari calories Wyatt Santiago advice Zachary Han and long line is here joining them and giving support yes the yoga session will last for roughly 20 minutes and after that The Honorable prime minister is the arrival of the Prime Minister of India when he arrives at U1 headquarters here and I ask that each and every one of you take position and I expect that everybody will be ready on their yoga mat for the lesson I also request that everyone in our audience to please remain seated please don't be around in case you need any is this is [Music] whatsoever we have volunteers positioned nearby and you will find them they're here to visit you they have your yellow caps on if you take a look around you'll see people with the yellow caps these are our volunteers here to assist you need to use the facilities while you're here you'll find them to your right next to the Promenade by the East River for our different stations set up for your comfort feel free to wear your reorganization and I see that almost everybody has the mom and you look beautiful today I wish you could see yourself the way I see it was really very very funny it is gorgeous what a gorgeous group we have today here for World yoga day 2023. yay well how does it get any better than that right I guess the answer is um you may have noticed right here which says there is no way to peace this is a special gift called India to the U.S and it's the very first social Evolution here in New York on the North Garden last December back in 2022 when the minister of Journal affairs minister Jenny Shankar was here but he was chairing the security Council back in December of 2072. and the Secretary General that we will Mr Antonio Gutierrez and the president of the 77th unga Mr chabala Karoshi and of course ambassador from bulge joined the external affairs minister of the gandhiji statue while the Prime Minister gave us foreign for us to come together in our self to come and unite within us to feel that in the resource that we have that connection of what we truly all that connection with one another and that connection with the Earth these trees with the air with the Stillness that we all feel everything I would like before we start in the next few minutes friends let us know come to schools as they are prime minister joins us statue I ask that we remain exceeded in our thoughts thank you as you can see The Honorable prime minister of India freedomology has arrived and he is now being powered by many cows thank you and he is now being followed by many people thank you [Music] foreign thank you for continuing to stay in your spot and be seated we will start the program very shortly and again if you need any assistance whatsoever we have our volunteers standing by to help they're wearing their yellow caps so that you may identify them easily you can see many sculptures that we have here on the North Lawn but today the gandhiji statue is one that is so dear to many of us here the principles that he holds and the concept of ahimsa is one that many of us are very familiar with that many world leaders are embodying and we see this as we look around to many people who aim to be the change that they want to see in the world together [Applause] twenty twenty three [Applause] I know today [Applause] a distinguished world leader and an important yoga for practitioner I'd like to remind everyone [Applause] himself back in December 2014 who introduced the idea of establishing the world of yoga day to U.N General Assembly a record number of 175 member states recognized yoga's Universal appeal and adopted The Landmark resolution while claiming June 21 as International yoga day the day of the summer solstice here in the north so every 21 of June this world yoga day this day provides people people everywhere across the globe all of us and everyone watching is opportunities [Music] [Applause] indeed an invaluable gift [Applause] it is celebrated worldwide with their enthusiasm and bigger I will now begin the official part of today's event by requesting Ambassador ensure of handles India's permanent representative to the United Nations to the stage to deliver her opening remarks thank you [Applause] and all my dear friends and colleagues from this wonderful audience today's celebrations indeed very very special prime minister Narendra Modi will lead us into yoga here and the United Nations to put masses and suspenses Leadership and also his guidance that pencil first team was declared as International yoga day and it is only official therefore that the inspiration behind the idea is because today is a feeling multifunctional setting of The United Nations ladies and Gentlemen please see so many around the world Gather in solidarity [Applause] and hold it close to your heart today [Applause] foreign here events always also the environment and us the most memorable University lectures I attended is very uncultural traditions they helped me that we are part of nature despite regarding ourselves as aristocratically the detention from other villages I also learned that the energies in the universe and inside us ing values yoga changes are physical performance but more importantly it can support in us different and health and intellectual performance we learn how to make a change [Applause] who has already reached a high level of practice foreign [Applause] violence in other words you'll get you to live increase not overusing resources not prioritizing short-term needs over planetary boundaries foreign difference [Applause] [Applause] the mayor of the city of New York please take the stage Secretary General to the best New York City is the largest and most important things in America [Applause] that we are no longer focused solely on a physical body with Humanity of our spirit all too long we have separated without emotions [Applause] exercises in the morning as they start this whole day to challenge me mental health there's a logical challenge for all of us [Applause] yoga must become what we do on these streets and in our cultures cannot become universally connected through the yellow Maps we lay on when disconnected as we move throughout communities give us the spirit and emotions of yoga to challenge and fight against War fight against gender oppression to fight against violence to fight against the lack of clean water to fight against big food insecurity to fight against the destruction of our planet our connectivity is not only are we connect you to our families and our parents we have two mothers one gave birth to us and one sin sustains us yoga keeps us connected to both mothers and objective to me this internet National yoga days of international call for us to stand up to four humankind across the globe in all living I'm proud to be here and I'm proud to symbolically represent this city as stated International yoga day it's an international call that we will be a leader here in New York City as you are a leader in your own environment thank you for allowing me to Choice with you today [Applause] we appreciate that perspective now to go to the video message of the U.S Secretary General Antonio Gutierrez who is not available [Applause] understand nature and immediatives people across the globe it is [Applause] [Applause] it connects us to our planet which so badly needs of protection and it reveals our common Humanity helping us to understand that despite our differences we are going all this International Day of yoga let us embrace the speed of unity and resolve to do the better of our wondrous world for people hello friends [Applause] should extend up my heart to no one else [Applause] thank you your Excellency [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] mayor of New York and my dear friends from all over the world I'm gonna stop [Applause] friends on this fine morning we are gathered here and the United Nations at the meeting point of entire Humanity in this wonderful series I know many of you have come here from far away most of you have get up Before Sunrise I am delighted to see you all and I thank you all for coming friends [Applause] do that almost every nationality is represented here today and cause to bring us all together yoga yoga means to unite so you are coming together in an expression [Music] I remember about nine years ago right here [Music] I have the honor to propose celebrating the International Day of yoga on 21st June it was wonderful to see the entire world came to support the idea back then just wait respect to the brave when we Skippers in 1950 new Memorial to be built at the U.N in that memory and laughing the whole world India to make this reality solo at the largest two continuity Nations we are grateful to All Nations for the restoration of support to this Noble God last year the entire world came together to support India's proposal celebrate 20 1923 at the international year of Village and upper food for environment too a holiday it is [Music] okay and it is I'm very old tradition but like all ancient Indian tradition is also living and dining yoga is free from copyright [Applause] free competence and free from royalty be nice yoga is adaptable your age gender and fitness flavor yoga is forever you can do that at home foreign [Applause] yoga unifying need for everyone [Applause] and for all culture yoga is truly Universal when we do yoga we feel physically fit mentally calm and emotionally content but it is not just about doing exercise on a man Noda is a way of life our Holy Spirit [Music] a way to mindfulness important a way to live in harmony will save with others and in nature I am delighted that many of you are working on scientifically validating different aspects of yoga Hindi received away friends I know we are all King to get started well so I want to thank the United Nations [Applause] [Applause] success and most of her thank you all once again for being here today let us use the power of yoga not only to be healthy but also to be kind to ourselves and each other let us use the power of no God will three days of frenzy a peaceful world and a cleaner theater and sustainable future let us join hands together to realize one family one future conclude with [Applause] [Music] some food May everyone be happy May everyone be healthy thank you foreign [Applause] stage and join us below for the yoga lesson things we would like us [Applause] daughter Miss annalize Richmond so that she can join on the stage we're going to prepare the stage so that we can get it ready for our yoga lesson [Applause] I've mentioned before that we'll have six energetic youngsters leading us along with Miss annalize Richmond in this lesson and we have more in the first row here on the North Mall joining us so that people be homes can also follow that way too everywhere I'm requesting that everyone stay on your yoga mat in your spot follow our yoga instructor in our yoga practitioners to the best of our ability yeah [Applause] the sun is not so strong [Applause] which makes for a very pleasant morning for us to all share in this Collective floor I'm delighted now again who will now start our yoga session thank you a very warm welcome to our honorable prime minister modiji and dignitaries it is an honor to have you with us in our midst we are delighted namaste [Applause] let us all enter into the world of yoga together can you hear me in the back let's bring our hands together in front of the heart in prayer pose look at the shoulders relaxed will do an invocation together we'll be checking all three times together let's close the eyes [Applause] let's take a deep breath in [Applause] um breathe out and let us check on eat breakfast [Applause] [Music] thank you [Music] songs [Applause] [Music] [Applause] give up [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] thank you that's the locks our hands in our lap when you feel ready and gently open your eyes we'll start our yoga sadhana or yoga practice with some loosening exercises to increase the circulation in the body so let's stand up we'll start in summer sticky alert posture so the feet two to three inches apart from each other in parallel tall and let's bring our hands onto our knees we'll do neck exercises first be careful in case of any left injuries or cervical spondylitis inhale stretch the spine exhale bring the chin to the chest as much as you can all the way into the chest all raise the head back up exhale left the chin and head fall back face to the sky inhale head to the center exhale chin to the chest inhale bring the head back to the center exhale let the head go back switching the front of the neck and one more time inhale to the center exhale to the chest stretch the back of the neck inhale the head into the center you can smile then exhale let the head go back gently oh chest inhale back to the center relax let's keep the hands on the waist well from right to the left be careful not just inhale stand tall exhale turn the chin over the right shoulder all the way over to the right through the stretch to the left side of the neck inhale back to the center smile exhale the chin over the left shoulder feel the stretch inhale back to the side exhale two over the right shoulder look as far as you can with the eyes inhale back to the center breathe in exhale chin over the left shoulder look to the left good inhale come back to the center and exhale relax good now we'll do trunk twisting to warm up the body and spine be careful of any spinal injuries so let's bring the feet one foot apart [Applause] back is tall inhale take the arms out in front of you that's parallel to each other exhale keep the hips where they are turn just the upper body to the right left Palms towards the right shoulder look to the right good inhale come back to the center Palms facing each other exhale twist the upper body to the left Palm facing the left shoulder good inhale come back looking forward Palm squeezing each other exhale twist just the upper body to the right look to the right left palm shoulder good inhale come back to the center and exhale to adjust the upper body to the left right smile [Applause] exhale relax now let's start our yoga asanas our yoga posters we'll start with tadasana the palm tree if you have any arthritis in the lower extremities don't think about your ankles in this posture so for today's apart from each other raise the arms up to shoulder height exhale exhaust the fingers and push the Palms away from you good inhale raise the arms up exhale here lengthen the spine inhale come up onto the toes and breathe here breathe in and breathe out breathe out breathe and breathe out slowly lower down toss the hands slowly Awareness on the body lower the arms good and relaxed [Applause] [Music] exhale Slide the fingers back to support the back elbows in parallel behind the back inhale let the head go back as far back as you can and let's Breathe Here breathe in and breathe out Breathe In and Out Awareness on the whole body breathe in and breathe out good inhale lift the chest come back up slowly good because exhale relax posture so keeping the feet in parallel to the three inches apart from each other inhale take the arms up from the front all the way up and exhale bending only from the hip joint keep the legs straight start to reach forward stretch your fingertips forward until your body is like a table parallel to the ground and now slowly lower the fingertips down either bring the hands to The Shins or fingertips to the ground or the Palms on the ground if you can drop your head towards your knees let's take a few deep breaths breathe in and down the legs straight breathe in as you breathe out head towards knees breathe in breathe out a little further breathe in boom breathe out inhale Slide the fingertips forward stretch the arms forward let the back come over the arms breathe in slowly come all the way up excellent and we'll go to the floor [Music] you can just stretch the legs out in front of you put your hands behind your back in a relaxed posture this is our relaxation pose and now let's bring the feet together toes pointing up to the sky hands beside the hips spine calm [Music] inhale lengthen your spine good exhale posture [Applause] so be careful in this posture in case of sciatica bring the leaves together those are the feet together exhale wrap your hands around your feet good inhale sit tall and exhale pull the heels as close as you can to the perineum relax if you like you can even close your eyes here breathe in exhale let the knees drop to inhale and exhale inhale exhale breathe into the whole box so gently put the hands behind your back recline back just a little again let the head fall back [Applause] good and again press down into the ground a little later exhale will come into madrasa the Dyson pose let's inhale take the right heel towards the right buttocks exhale inhale left heel heel towards the left buttocks place the buttocks in the space between the toes hands on the knees and you can gain sausages let's take a few deep breaths with the awareness of the whole body [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] see this and don't forget when you feel ready [Applause] lower back be careful in this closing case [Applause] so let's inhale here bring the elbows to work each other behind the back let the head fall back and exhale Bend backwards from the upper back stay chest to the sky breathe out [Applause] slowly with awareness of the whole body that I feel exactly and relax forward so we'll take Sasha Katana the hair posture so be careful because of osteoarthritis of the disease [Applause] inhale open the knees exhale let's put the hand between the legs inhale lengthen your spine and exhale slide forward gently and slowly all the way keeping the arms parallel with each other bring the chin to the ground and relax the whole body if the chin doesn't want to touch the ground break the forehead breathe into your hips breathe in breathe out depressing breathe out [Applause] one more gentle breath in and out inhale come back up slowly put the awareness on the whole body breathe in exhale and we'll take the stretched up so inhale and take the knees to the side again if this is bothering your knees you can put it in a different position inhale take the arms up from the front stretch five miles and exhale Bend from the elbows Only The Palms off the alternate shoulder blades right palm on the left shoulder blade left palm on the right shoulder blade see if you could keep the chin on parallel to the Earth and take a movie breathe out breathe into the chest [Applause] is inhale raise the arms up the exhale at the moment you've been waiting for let's slide down on our stomach come all the way down turn your head to the right side your feet apart or so let them slay out to the side turn the head onto the pants [Applause] [Applause] then now bring the legs together take the arms out in front of you you can have them resting on the ground [Applause] [Applause] breathe out breathe in and without one more breath in a little higher uh exhale slowly lower down again make the pillow with the hands you're gonna have the time to the left side legs apart the dial pose resting in the Sun let the breath relax oh [Applause] gently let's turn onto our back gently rolls [Applause] off the wind free and posture so inhale oh exhale bring the knees to the chest towards the chest you inhale press the fingers together place them on The Shins wrap the arms around the legs exhale bring the forehead towards the knees and tilt the chin or nose touches the knees breathe in and breathe out deep breath awareness of the whole body breathing breathe out one more breath breathe in and exhale release the head down relax the legs slide them down onto the ground let the legs feel when did you beat apart but the tools fall out to the side and the Arms by your sides low [Applause] [Applause] people take our attention to our toes [Applause] thank you [Applause] bye thank you right [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] foreign [Applause] [Applause] let's turn and rest on our right side for a moment when he lean on the right side [Applause] slowly and gently and all the way back up too comfortable to see the student position you could set a class like it if you like or in Lotus or half notice it's like a spine top I'm more practice except breathing techniques so the spine tall let's bring our hands and mudra is a hand position with a direct the flow of Prana or energy of the body the index finger and thumb are lightly touchy relax with the hands resting on the back [Applause] TV will be forcefully Contracting the abdomen and the Air Forces out of the out of the nose like this and the hair comes out of the nose the inhalation happens on its own okay we'll take 20 repetitions so let's close the eyes [Applause] let's begin relax [Applause] all over the body [Applause] when you feel ready you can open your eyes good then we'll do a nadi's children or alternate nostril breathing so let's bring the left hand into yeah foreign [Music] [Applause] thank you [Applause] [Music] foreign today always very shortly we will be having Among Us so I request everyone who are standing there near the Gandhi statue this is not the place for standing I request everyone to go and take your position take your position on a yoga mat please clear that area I request everyone please take your petition foreign [Music] [Music] Excellency distinguished participants sisters and brothers now let's say my name is Denise Sato and I am the Mistress of Ceremonies for today's event here at the U Land North Lawn building day 2023 already nine years can you believe it yoga day 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very important [Music] nine years [Applause] agree here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very warm welcome to each and every one of you joining in person but also to those who are watching or listening to the live webcast this is a very special yoga event I don't have to tell you that because most of you already know we're experiencing a historic moment in time today as we celebrate this ninth anniversary of world yoga day we're honored to be joined by The Honorable prime minister of India Marie [Applause] you'll be here with us very soon this year's theme for World yoga day is a Sanskrit verse which originates from the Indian scriptures and it Loosely translates to the concept that the whole world is one family Yoda's popularity has exploded to every corner of the globe and it only continues to grow we will know that yoga embodies Unity Unity of mind or Consciousness and body thought and action restraint and fulfillment happening between Humanity or human family and all of nature a holistic approach to health well-being as well as experiencing a sense of Joy or balance and peace or just exercise although we are very familiar with the multitude of benefits and richness of yoga is about discovering a sense of Oneness consciousness and the external world but also one is with the world in nature a defense connection to the meaning of life in the words of one of the most famous yoga practitioners yoga cultivates the ways of maintaining a balanced attitude in day-to-day life and in their skill in the performance of one's activities I want to share with you a brief overview of today's events as The Honorable prime minister of India arrives will be here with us on this very stage together with Her Excellency the permanent representative of India to the U.N Ambassador which drunk handballs also with respect who is the president of the United Nations General assembly and Eric Adams who is the mayor of the city of New York [Music] yoga teaching so that we can have a yoga practice and experience that at the same time our yoga instructor Miss Emily section will be leading the demonstration along with the youngsters and these are the ones who deserve a lot of credit I'll call them out so you know who they are the six youngsters will be on the stage with us are send Marie and Gaza lyric tonic Ani Daniela welcome whiskey color Wu and Charlotte both will have other yoasters joining us along on the North Lawn in this first row some of them are here already and these youngsters are Kahari careless graceful product Wyatt Santiago advice and giving support come on yes the yoga session will last for roughly 20 minutes and after that The Honorable prime minister arrival of the Prime Minister of India when he arrives at U.N headquarters here and I ask that each and every one of you take position and I expect that everybody will be ready on their yoga now for the lesson I also request that everyone in our audience to please remain seated please don't move around in case you need any anything whatsoever we have volunteers positions nearby and you will find them they're here to visit you they have your yellow caps on if you take a look around you'll see people with the yellow caps these are our volunteers here to assist should you need to use the facilities while you're here you'll find them to your right next to the Promenade by the East River for our different stations set up for your company feel free to wear your yoga Day shirts and I see that almost everybody has the mom and you look beautiful today I wish you could see yourself the way I see it was really very very wonderful to see this the white with a yellow Mouse it is gorgeous what a gorgeous group we have today here for World yoga day 2023. yay well how does it get any better than that right I guess the answer is um you may have noticed right here and there is a quote on the plaque and if you haven't seen it yet I'll have to this event you may want to take a look and the quote is a famous story which says there are creational ways is the way this is a special gift called India to the U.S and it's the very first culture of foundation here in New York it was unveiled last December back in 2022 when the minister of external affairs minister Jay Shankar was here when he was chairing the security Council back in December of 2022. of the Secretary General of the UN Mr Antonio Gutierrez and the president of the 77th unga or Mr chavalo Karoshi and of course ambassador joined the external affairs minister of the gandhiji statue while the Prime Minister gave the foreign to come and unite within us to feel that in the resource that we have that connection of who we truly all with one another and that connection with these trees with the Stillness that we all feel everything I would like before we start in the next few minutes friends let us know come to Stillness as The Honorable prime minister joins us I ask that we remain exceeded in our thoughts as you can see The Honorable prime minister of India freeing a regular motig has arrived and he is now being followed by many people not enough and he is now being followed by many people thank you [Music] foreign thank you for continuing to stay in your spot and be seated we will start the program very shortly and again if you need any assistance whatsoever we have our volunteers standing by to help they're wearing their yellow caps so that you may identify them easily you can see many sculptures that we have here on the North Lawn but today the gandhiji statue is one that is so dear to many of us here the principles that he holds and the concept of ahimsa is one that many of us are very familiar with that many world leaders are embodying and we see this as we look around to many people who aim to be the change that they want to see in the world together [Applause] twenty twenty three today [Applause] [Applause] a distinguished world leader I'd like to remind everyone himself back in December 2014 who introduced the idea of establishing the world of yoga day to the UN General Assembly a record number of 175 member states recognized yoga's Universal appeal and adopted The Landmark resolution proclaiming June 21 as International yoga day the day of the summer solstice here in the north so at range 21 of June is World yoga day this day provides people people everywhere across the globe all of us and everyone watching is opportunity [Music] [Applause] indeed an invaluable gift tradition [Applause] s while celebrating worldwide with their enthusiasm and bigger I will now begin the official part of today's event by requesting ambassadors handles India's permanent representative to the United Nations to the stage to deliver her opening remarks thank you foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] ladies and Gentlemen please see so many around the world together in solidarity it is [Applause] strong Beyond articulation still be all the time I hope all of you that cherished with the first June this year and hold it close to your heart today and forever thank you [Applause] thank you Ambassador can vote for your Rewards it's my turn now to invite The Honorable president of the U.N generally assembly Mr Chavez for these days I will promise is there any difference and also the environment and us the most memorable University lectures I attended so we're on cultural Traditions ancient Eastern civilizations they helped me understand that we are part nership despite regarding ourselves [Applause] I also learned energy in the universe and inside us abide by the single Yoga challenges are physical but more importantly it can supporting us [Applause] we learn how to make change [Applause] who has already reached a high level of practice [Applause] don't see long agreed [Applause] on violence in other words and reality to sustain a moment not overusing resources not prioritizing short-term means over planetary boundaries of all communities recognition of moral responsibilities cherishing peace I'm happy but let me apologize and the positions which you will show but still I'm here with an open house thank you president for highlighting this transformative on such a very personal day at this time is the mayor of the city of New York please [Applause] Secretary General [Applause] closed captioning not available [Applause] to allowing our children to have breathing in the morning to challenge the mental health which is a larger challenge for all of us what we do on the math and practicing yoga must become what we do on these streets and in our homes we cannot become universally connected through the yellow Maps we lay on when disconnected as we move through our communities Universal spirit and emotions of yoga Challenge and fight against War to fight against gender oppression to fight against violence to fight against the lack of clean water to fight against big old insecurity to fight against the destruction of our planet our connectivity is not only are we connected to our families and our parents we have two mothers one gave birth to us and one sin sustains us yoga keeps us connected to both mothers and connected to each other this International yoga days of international call for us to stand up for humankind across the globe and all living men are proud to be here and I'm proud to symbolically represent this city as stated the international yoga day is an international call that we will be a leader being in New York City as you are a leader in your own fine thank you for allowing me to Rejoice with you today [Applause] we appreciate that perspective and important I'd like now to go to the video message of the U.N Secretary General Antonio Antonio who is not available to be with us in person that is here in spirit please let us go to the videotape don't understand people across the globe but it is [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] stopping us to understand and despite our differences we are going all this International Day of yoga let us embrace the speakability and resolved in the depth of what I want this world for people planets [Applause] to extend the heart starts welcome your invitation to no one else that The Honorable prime minister of India please join us [Applause] your Excellency [Applause] [Music] [Applause] assembly [Applause] deputies [Music] mayor of New York and my dear friends from all over the world [Applause] friends on this fine morning we are together here at the United Nations at the winning point of entire Humanity it was wonderful City I know many of you have come here from far away most of you have I'm gonna Before Sunrise great effort to come here I am delighted to see you all and I thank you all for coming friends [Applause] and know that almost every nationality is represented here today and what are the average costs to bring us all together yoga yoga means to unite so you are coming together in an expression of another form of yoga I remember about nine years ago right here [Music] I have the honor to propose celebrating the International Day of yoga on 21st June it was wonderful to see the entire world came together it's about the idea Batman I've just met to the brave when his sleepers in 1950 new Memorial to be built at the UN in that memory and laughing the whole world went down and India to make this reality soon at the largest to continuity Nations we are grateful to All Nations for the restoration of support to this noble cause last year the entire world came together to support India's proposal to celebrate foreign friends [Music] come from India okay and it is a very old tradition but like all ancient Indian traditions it is also living and dining yoga is free from copyright [Applause] [Music] healthy [Music] very nice yoga is adaptable your age gender and Princess lever yoga is forever you can do that at home forever or in Turkey [Applause] you can practice it alone foreign [Applause] Universal right yoga before physically fit mentally calm and emotionally content but it is not just about doing exercise on a man Noda is a way of life I'm Holy Spirit [Music] a way to mindfulness important a way to live in harmony will save with others and in nature I am delighted that many of you working on scientifically validity different aspects of yoga [Applause] this is the way friends I know we are all King to get started well so am I I want to thank the United Nations [Applause] [Music] [Applause] and most of her thank you all once again for being here today let us use the power of yoga not only to be healthy happy but also to be kind to ourselves and each other let us use the power of yoga will three days of frenzy a peaceful world and a cleaner Creator and sustainable future Satan join hands together to realize the goal of one family one future I conclude with [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] May everyone be happy May everyone be healthy thank you [Applause] dignitaries please leave the stage and join us below for the yoga lessons [Applause] Richmond so that she can join on the stage we're going to prepare the stage so that we can get it ready for our yoga lesson [Applause] I've mentioned before that we'll have six energetic youngsters leading us along with Miss annalize Richmond in this lesson and we have more in the first row here on the North Mall joining us so that people behind can also follow that way too thank you foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] yeah and we had a nice freeze coming through which makes for a very unpleasant warning for us to all share in this Collective room I'm delighted now who will now start our yoga session thank you a very warm welcome to our honorable prime minister modiji and signatures it is an honor to have you with us in our midst we are delighted namaste [Applause] let us all enter into the world of yoga together can you hear me in the back let's bring our hands together in front of the heart and prayer pose look at the shoulders relaxed and we'll do an invocation together we'll be checking all three times together let's close the eyes [Applause] everybody let's take a deep breath in okay breathe out another Channel [Applause] [Music] [Music] [Applause] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] give up foreign [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] let's relax our hands in our lap when you feel ready and gently open your eyes we'll start our yoga or yoga practice with some loosening exercises to increase the circulation in the body so let's stand up we'll start in summer sticky alert posture so this is two to three inches apart from each other in parallel tall and let's bring our hands onto our face we'll do neck exercises first be careful in case of any neck injuries or cervical spondylitis inhale stretch the spine exhale bring the chin to the chest as much as you can all the way to the chest all raise the head back up exhale let the chin and head fall back face to the sky inhale head to the center exhale into the chest feelings bring the head back to the center exhale let the head go back stretching the front a little bit one more time inhale to the center smile [Music] then exhale let the head go back gently oh the throw the chest inhale back to the center relax good keeping the hands on the waist from right to the left be careful not just inhale stand tall exhale turn the chin over the right shoulder look all the way over to the right through the stretch in the left side of the neck inhale back to the center smile exhale the chin over the left shoulder feel the stretched held back [Applause] tail shift over the right shoulder look as far as you can with the eyes inhale back to the center breathe in exhale chin over the left shoulder look to the left good inhale come back to the center and exhale relax now we'll do trunk drifting to warm up the body and spine be careful of any spinal entries so let's bring the feet one foot apart even parallel in summer stiffy alert posture back is tall inhale take the arms out in front of you that's parallel to each other exhale keep the hips where they are turn just the upper body to the right left palm towards the right shoulder look to the right good inhale come back to the center Palms facing each other [Applause] good inhale come back looking forward Palms facing each other exhale twist just the upper body to the right hook to the right left palm to the right shoulder good inhale come back to the center and exhale to adjust the upper body to the left right arm towards smile [Applause] exhale relax now let's start our yoga asanas or yoga postures we'll start with tadasana the Palm Tree Foster if you have any arthritis in the lower extremities don't think about your ankles in this posture so for today's and inhale raise the arms up to shoulder height exhale cross the fingers and push the Palms away from you good inhale raise the arms up exhale here lengthen the spine inhale come up onto the toes and breathe here breathe in and breathe out please [Applause] lower down feet from across the hand slowly the awareness on the body and lower the arm the arms good and relaxed and now again alert posture to take a back bend if you have any vertigo or back injuries be careful with this code half wheel posture let's take the hands [Music] grow tall exhale Slide the fingers back to support the back elbows in parallel behind the back inhale let the head go back as you exhale Bend from the lumbar spine go back carefully if you stay as far back as you can and let's Breathe Here breathe in and breathe out Breathe In and Out Awareness on the whole body breathe in and breathe out good inhale lift the chest come back up slowly good pause exhale relax posture [Applause] keeping the inhale take the arms up from the front all the way up and exhale bending only from the hip joint keep the legs straight start to reach forward stretch your fingertips forward until your body is like a table parallel to the ground and now slowly lower the fingertips down either bring the hands to The Shins or fingertips to the ground or the Palms on the ground if you can drop your head towards your knees let's take a few deep breaths breathe in and down the legs straight en as you breathe out head towards knees breathe in breathe out a little further breathe in boom breathe out good inhale Slide the fingertips forward stretch the arms forward let the back come up with the arms breathe in slowly all the way up and we'll go to the floor [Music] you can just stretch the legs out in front of you put your hands behind your back in a relaxed posture this is our relaxation pose and now let's bring the feet together toes pointing up to the sky hands beside the hips spine top because inhale lengthen your spine good exhale and now we'll just have to confirm posture so be careful in this posturing case of sciatica bring the leaves together those are the feet together exhale wrap your hands around your feet good inhale sit tall and exhale pull the heels as close as you can to the perineum relax close your eyes here breathe in exhale let the knees drop towards the ground inhale and exhale inhale exhale breathe into the whole box and breathe out the gently start back out put the hands behind your back recline back just a little again let the head fall back [Applause] good and again press challenge exhale will come into madrasa the diamond pose let's inhale take the right heel towards the right buttocks inhale left heel towards those Aesthetics place the buttocks in the space between the toes hands on the knees [Music] let's take a few deep breaths [Applause] that the awareness of a whole lot [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] more breath see this [Applause] or any final entry so let's inhale here bring the elbows to work each other behind the back let the head fall back and the exhale Bend backwards from the upper back wards breathe out in all three down one more time read them and out inhale come back up slowly with awareness good exhale exactly and relax forward so we'll take the hair posture so be careful because of osteoarthritis [Applause] inhale open the knee exhale let's put the hand between the legs inhale lengthen your spine and exhale slide forward gently and slowly all the way keeping the hips arms and parallel with each other bring the chin to the ground and relax the whole body if the chin doesn't want to touch the ground break the forehead to the ground and the Box breathe into your hips breathe in breathe out impressive breathe out [Applause] one more gentle breath in and out inhale come back up slowly put Awareness on the whole body breathe in exhale closely and we'll take the stretched up so inhale let's take the knees to the side again if this is bothering your knees inhale take the arms up from the front stretch bye smile and exhale Bend from the elbows Only The Palms off to alternate shoulder blades right palm on the left shoulder blade left palm on the right shoulder blade see if you can keep the chin up parallel to the Earth and and take your food breathe out breathe into the chest [Applause] smile [Applause] raise the arms up the exhale at the moment you've been waiting for let's slide down on our stomach come all the way down yeah turn your head to the right side take your feet apart or so let them stay out to the side turn the head put onto the pants [Applause] [Applause] together take the arms out in front of you you can have the rescue on the ground be careful of this abdominals inhale bring the hands underneath the shoulder elbows close to the body exhale secure and inhale lift the head the two chest upper chest until the navel and three wheels breathe out relax the shoulders push them down and back breathe in and breathe out feet in and without one more breath in a little higher tax will slowly lower down again make the pillow with the hands you're gonna have this time to the left side legs apart on the other side crocodile pose resting in the Sun [Applause] okay [Applause] let's turn onto our back gently rolling everybody's face imposter [Applause] so inhale bring the knees up exhale bring the knees to the chest towards the chest you inhale press the fingers together place them on The Shins wrap the arms around the legs exhale bring the forehead towards the knees and tilt the chin or nose touches the knees breathe in and breathe out deep breath awareness of the whole body breathe breathe breathe out one more breath breathe in and exhale release the head down relax the legs slide them down onto the ground let the legs feed one to two feet apart but the toes fall out to the sides and the Arms by your sides Palms up into the sky relaxing arms [Applause] relax the whole body [Applause] [Applause] of course [Applause] thank you so right arm and hands bye [Applause] Rose [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] at the top the whole body [Applause] slowly [Applause] down let's turn and rest on our right side [Applause] slowly and gently and all the way back up too comfortable to see the student position second class like it if you like or in Lotus or have Lotus with a spine top a more practice some breathing techniques so the spine tall let's bring our hands full dress and budra is a hand position with a directs the flow of Prana or energy in the body so index finger and thumb are lightly touchy the backs of the hands resting on the back okay so it's easy will be forcefully Contracting the abdomeness and the air or species out of the nose like this out of the nose the inhalation happens on its own will take 20 repetitions of kapalabati breathing so that's close the eyes will take twenty thousands let's begin [Applause] relax [Applause] relaxing [Applause] notice the energy [Applause] when you feel ready you can open your eyes good then we'll do a knottyama or alternate nostril breathing so let's bring the left hand into yeah security foreign [Music] [Applause] [Applause] [Music] yeah I request everyone take your place on a yoga mat I request everyone whoever is very shortly we will be having Among Us so I request everyone who was standing there near the Gandhi statue this is not the place for standing I request everyone to go and take your position take your position on a yoga mat please clear that area I request everyone please take your position thank you [Music] questions [Music] Excellency distinguished participants and Brothers now let's say my name is Denise Stater and I am the Mistress of Ceremonies for today's event here at the U Land North Lawn building Disney World yoga day 2023 already nine years can you believe it yoga day 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very important [Music] [Applause] yoga day 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it is my pleasure to extend a very warm welcome to each and every one of you joining in person but also to those who are watching or listening to the live webcast this is a very special yoga event I don't have to tell you that because most of you already know we're experiencing a historic moment in time today as we celebrate this ninth anniversary of world yoga day we're honored to be joined by The Honorable prime minister of India Modi [Applause] he'll be here with us very soon this year's theme for World yoga day is a Sanskrit verse which originates from the Indian scriptures and it Loosely translates to the concept that the whole world is one family Yoda's popularity has exploded to every corner of the floor and it only continues to grow we well know that yoga embodies Unity Unity of mind or Consciousness and body fault and action restraint and fulfillment normally between Humanity or human family and all of nature a holistic approach to help well-being as well as experiencing a sense of Joy balance and peace yoga is so awesomeness for just exercise although we are very familiar with the multitude of benefits that it can have on the most sensible mental and even a spiritual fault the fullest and richness of yoga is about discovering a sense of Oneness goodness between considered Consciousness and the external world but also Oneness with the world in nature a deepens connection to the meaning of life in the words of one of the most famous yoga practitioners yoga cultivates the ways of maintaining a balanced attitude in day-to-day life coming down skipping the performance of one's activity I'd like to share with you a brief overview of today's events as The Honorable prime minister of India arrives will be here with us on this very stage together with Her Excellency the permanent representative of India to the UN Ambassador ruchira Campbells who is the president of the United Nations General Assembly Eric Adams who is in mayor of his city of New York these secretaries will address the scattering briefly but after these remarks we'll begin as a group our yoga lesson [Music] yoga teaching so that we can have a yoga practice and experience that at the same time foreign [Music] whiskey both will have other yoasters joining us Below on the North Mall in this first row some of them are here already and these youngsters are Kahari careless graceful product Wyatt Santiago advice and giving support yes the yoga session will last for roughly 20 minutes and after that The Honorable prime minister story I will announce the arrival of the Prime Minister of India when he arrives at U.S Cornerstone and I ask that each and every one of you take position and I expect that everybody will be ready on their yoga mat for the lesson I also request that everyone in our audience to please remain seated please don't move around in case you need anything or assistance whatsoever we have volunteers positioned nearby and you will find them they are here to visit you they have your Yellow Cab song you take a look around you'll see people with the yellow caps these are our volunteers here to assist should you need to use the facilities while you're here you'll find them to your right next to the Promenade by the East River where you can stations set up for your company feel free to wear your yoga Day shirts and I see that almost everybody has the mom and you look beautiful today I wish you could see yourself in my eyes looks really very very funny it is gorgeous what a gorgeous group we have today here for World yoga day 2023. yay well how does it get any better than that right I guess the answer is um you may have noticed right here and they are the support on the plaque and if you haven't seen it yet uh after this event concludes you may want to take a look and the quote is called a brownie G which says there is no way to peace is the way discuss the gandhiji was a special gift called India to the U.S and it's the very first culture of foundation here in New York on the North bomb in the gardens it was unveiled last December back in 2022 where the minister of Journal affairs minister Jay Shankar was here but he was chairing the security Council back in December of 2022. and the Secretary General of the UN Mr Antonio Gutierrez and the president of the 77th unga Mr chavalo Karoshi and of course ambassador joined the external affairs minister of the gandhiji statue while the Prime Minister gave us tribute so we are waiting now uh this morning this fresh morning for this moment for us to come together the rest didn't come together in our self to come and unite within us to feel that in the resource that we have that connection um action with one another and that connection with these trees with the Stillness that we all feel that deep space that Web of Life I would like before we start in the next few minutes to make a few acknowledgments let us know come to Stillness as they are for prime minister joins us paying tribute as he does to the gandhiji station [Applause] yes has arrived and he is now being powered by many how and he is now being followed by many people foreign [Music] foreign thank you for continuing to stay in your spot and be seated we will start the program very shortly and again if you need any assistance whatsoever we have our volunteers standing by to help they're wearing their yellow caps so that you may identify them easily you can see many sculptures that we have here on the North Lawn but today the gandhiji statue is one that is so dear to many of us here the principles that he holds and the concept of ahimsa is one that many of us are very familiar with that many world leaders are embodying and we see this as we look around to many people who aim to be the change that they want to see in the world gentlemen [Applause] one two one two three [Applause] to have with us today [Applause] a distinguished world leader I'd like to remind everyone himself back in December 2014 who introduced the idea of establishing world of yoga day to the UN General Assembly a record number of 175 member states recognized yoga's Universal appeal and adopted The Landmark resolution while claiming June 21 as International yoga day day of the summer solstice here in the north so every 21 of June is World yoga day this day provides people everywhere across the globe all of us and everyone watching is opportunity [Music] of practicing yoga indeed an invaluable gift [Applause] it is our celebrated worldwide when the enthusiasm and vigor I will now begin the official part of today's event by requesting Ambassador and chair of handles India's permanent representative to the United Nations to the stage to deliver her opening remarks children foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] and hold it close to your hearts today [Applause] new Ambassador Campos for your Rewards it's my turn now to invite The Honorable president of the UN General Assembly Mr Chavez for these days is there more difference and also the environment and us the most memorable University lectures I attended as a student were on cultural Traditions ancient Eastern civilization they helped me understand [Applause] much despite regarding ourselves I also learned Energies in the universe beside us right single a designer pledge Yoga challenges of physical performance but more importantly [Applause] we learn how to make change [Applause] already reached a high level of practice being most of her I understand guys [Applause] in other words [Music] to sustain not overusing resources not prioritizing children just as it needs recognition of moral responsibilities cherishing peace we are very good nobody's going to give us but let me apologize and the positions which you will show myself still I'm here with an open arms [Applause] the mayor of the city of New York please take these days [Applause] United States [Applause] that is the significance of this model New York city is the largest and most important city in America as I understand [Applause] everybody without any of our spirit for far too long he had separated with our leaders [Applause] exercise [Applause] [Applause] for all of us what we do we do on the map and practicing yoga must become what we do on these streets and in our courses we cannot become universally connected through the yellow Maps we lay on when disconnected as we move through our communities it was the spirit and emotions of yoga to challenge and fight against War fight against gender oppression to fight against violence to fight against the lack of clean water to fight against security to fight against the destruction of our planet our connectivity is not only are we connected to our families and our parents we have two mothers one gave birth to us and one sin sustains us yoga keeps us connected to both mothers and to each other this International yoga days of international call for us to stand up for humankind across the globe in all living things are proud to be here a proud to symbolically represent this city as stated the international yoga day is an international call that we would be a leader being in New York City as you are a leader in your own environment thank you for allowing me to Rejoice with you today you make it runs the spotlight in hell yoga was teachable to the American Spirit we appreciate that perspective and important to go to the video message of the U.S Secretary General Antonio Gutierrez who is not available to be with us in person that is here in spirit please let us go to the videotape foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] International Day of yoga let us Embrace to speak the unity as a result of the depth of modern wonders worlds of people planets and ourselves [Applause] know what the hell honorable prime minister of India join us [Applause] your Excellency [Applause] foreign [Music] [Applause] on this fine morning we are together here at the United Nations at the winning point of entire Humanity in this wonderful seriously I know many of you have come here from far away most of you have Before Sunrise I'm delighted to see you all and I thank you all for coming friends [Applause] and know that almost every nationality is represented here today and what are the average costs to bring us all together yoga yoga means to unite together in an expression of another form of yoga I remember about nine years ago right here [Music] I have the honored to propose celebrating the International Day of yoga on 21st June it was wonderful to see the entire world came together to support the idea Batman I've just paid respect the brave when his people in 1950 new Memorial to be built at the UN in that memory and lastly [Music] India made this reality soon at the largest to continuity Nations [Music] for the respirations of all to this Noble gods last year the entire world came together to support India's proposal to celebrate 20 1953 at the international year of military malays are a superfood they promote holistic health it is good for environment too it is a very old traditions but like all ancient tradition it is also living and dynamic yoga is free from copyright [Applause] free competence and free from royalty yoga is adaptable to your age gender and princesses [Applause] you can do that at home forever orientally yoga is you can practice it alone [Applause] yoga is unifying it is for everyone [Applause] and for all culture yoga is truly Universal right when we do yoga we will physically fit mentally calm and emotionally content but it is not just about doing exercise on a man Noda is a way of life I've only seen as well [Music] they play mindfulness in thought connections [Applause] with others and in nature I am delighted that many of you are working on scientifically dominating different aspects of yoga we need received friends I know you are all King to get started well so am I I want to thank the United Nations [Applause] I am grateful to the mere and the view of pure for all the help and supporting facilities success and most of her want to thank you all once again for being here today let us use the power of yoga not only do we need to be happy but also to me trying to ourselves and each other they just use the power of yoga till three days of frenzy a peaceful world and a cleaner Creator and sustainable future let us join hands together to rely one family one future and conclude with foreign [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] thank you thank you foreign [Applause] thank you leave the stage and join us hello [Applause] friends friends Miss annalize Richmond so that she could join on the stage [Applause] so that we can get it ready for our yoga lesson [Applause] I've mentioned before that we'll have six energetic youngsters leading us along with Miss annalize Richmond in this lesson and we have more in the first row here on the North Lawn joining us so that people be home can also follow that way too foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] a very warm welcome to our honorable prime minister modiji and signatures it is an honor to have you with us in our midst we are delighted namaste [Applause] let us all enter into the world of yoga together can you hear me in the back let's bring our hands together in front of the heart and prayer pose look at the shoulders relaxed and we'll do an invocation together we'll be checking all three times together let's close the eyes [Applause] let's take a deep breath in please [Music] [Applause] foreign [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] foreign [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] when you feel ready and gently open your eyes we'll start our yoga sadhana our yoga practice with some loosening exercises to increase the circulation in the body so let's stand up we'll start in summer City alert posture so this is two to three inches apart from each other in parallel spines tall [Music] exercises first be careful in case of any left injuries or cervical spondylitis let's inhale stretch the spine exhale bring the chin to the chest as much as you can all the way to the chest raise the head back up exhale let the chin and head fall back face to the sky inhale head to the center exhale chin to the chest inhale bring the bring the head back to the center exhale let the head go back stretching the front of the leg and one more time inhale to the center smile [Music] then exhale let the head go back gently open the throat and chest peel back to the center relax good keeping the hands on the waist from right to the left be careful not to jerk the magnets inhale stand tall exhale turn the chin over the right shoulder look all the way over to the right through the stretch to the left side of the neck inhale back into the center smile exhale the chin over the left shoulder feel the stretch first inhale back to the center and exhale two over the right shoulder look as far as you can with the eyes inhale back to the center breathe in exhale chin over the left shoulder look to the left good inhale come back to the center and exhale relax [Applause] so let's bring the feet one foot apart beat in parallel in summer City alert faster back is tall inhale take the arms out in front of you that's parallel to each other exhale keep the hips where they are turn just the upper body to the right [Applause] good inhale come back looking for Palms facing each other exhale twist just the upper body to the right look to the right left palm to the right shoulder good inhale come back to the center and exhale to adjust the upper body to the left right arm towards them back to the center you can smile exhale relax now let's start our yoga asanas or yoga pastures [Applause] if you have any arthritis in the lower extremities don't think about your ankles in this posture so for today's two to three inches apart from each other and inhale raise the arms up to shoulder height exhale cross the fingers and push the Palms away from you good inhale raise the arms up exhale here lengthen the spine inhale come up onto the toes and breathe here breathe in and breathe out breathe [Music] [Applause] all right breathe out so we lowered down eat come past the hands slowly Awareness on the body and lower the arms down slowly good and relaxed and now again alert posture take a back bend and if you have anywhere to go or back injuries be careful with this stuff so are that your class is not a half wheel posture let's take the hands here we're on top exhale Slide the fingers back to support the back elbows in parallel behind the back inhale let the head go back in front of the back as you exhale Bend from the lumbar spine go back and carefully and use the as far back as you can and let's Breathe Here breathe in and breathe out Breathe In and Out Awareness on the whole body breathe in every breathe out good inhale lift the chest come back up slowly good pass exhale relax good it feels good take the forward posture so keeping the feet in parallel to the three inches apart from each other inhale take the arms up from the front all the way up from the hip joint the legs straight start to reach forward stretch your fingertips forward until your body is like a table parallel to the ground and now slowly lower the fingertips down you could bring the hands to The Shins or fingertips to the ground or the Palms on the ground if you can drop your head towards your knees let's deep breath breathe in and out the legs straight breathe in as you breathe out head towards knees breathe in breathe out go a little further breathe in and breathe out good inhale Slide the fingertips forward stretch the arms forward let the bathtub Open Arms breathe in slowly come all the way up and relax excellent and we'll go to the floor [Music] you can just stretch the legs out in front of you put your hands behind your back in a relaxed posture let's go back a little bit this is our relaxation pose and now let's bring the feet together toes pointing up to the sky and that's the side to his spine top because inhale lengthen your spine good exhale and now we'll do a budget posture so be careful in this posture in case of sciatica bring the beach together those are the feet together Act exhale wrap your hands around your feet good inhale sit tall and exhale pull the heels as close as it canceled perineum if you like you can even close your eyes here breathe in exhale let the knees drop towards the ground inhale and exhale inhale exhale breathe into the whole box [Applause] the gently stretch the legs back out take the hands behind your back recline back just a little again let the head fall back [Applause] good and again exhale will come into madrasa the diamond pose [Applause] [Music] let's take a few deep breath [Applause] that the awareness of the whole body [Applause] [Music] [Applause] when you feel ready [Applause] [Applause] so let's inhale here bring the elbows to work each other behind the back let the head fall back and the exhale Bend backwards from the upper back Wards breathe out is [Applause] one more time breathing and down inhale come back up slowly with awareness of the whole body the exhale exactly and relax forward so we'll take Sasha casana the hair posture so be careful because of osteoarthritis [Applause] inhale open the knees exhale let's put the hand between the legs inhale lengthen your spine and exhale slide forward gently and slowly all the way keeping his arms parallel with each other bring the chin to the ground and relax the whole body if the chin doesn't want to touch the ground break the forehead down and relax breathe into your hips breathe in breathe out breathe out excuse it down one more gentle breath in and out good inhale come back up slowly with Awareness on the whole body breathe breathe in exhale close and we'll take the stretched up frog posture so inhale let's take the knees to the side again if this is bothering your knees you can put it in a different position inhale take the arms up from the front stretch the spine smile and exhale Bend from the elbows Only The Palms also alternate shoulder blades right palm on the left shoulder blade left palm on the right shoulder blade see if you can keep the chin parallel to the Earth and we'll take your food breathe out breathe into the chest [Applause] smile inhale raise the arms up the exhale [Applause] by the moment you've been waiting for let's slide down onto our knot on our stomach come all the way down make a pillow with the hands turn your head to the right side take your feet into your feet apart or so let them stay out to the side turn the head onto the pants [Applause] together [Applause] take the arms out in front of you can have the resting on the ground be careful about this whole thing or any abdominal injury inhale bring the hands underneath the shoulder elbows close to the body exhale secure and inhale lift the head to chest upper chest into the navel and breathe out shoulders push them down and back breathe in and breathe out breathe in and about one more breath in you can do a higher feet and exhale slowly lower down again make the pillow with the hands and that has the time to the left side legs apart the dial pose resting in the stuff that's the problem [Applause] well gently let's turn onto our backs gently rolls okay posture so inhale exhale bring the knees to the chest towards the chest inhale press the fingers together place them on The Shins wrap the arms around the legs exhale bring the forehead towards the knees and tilt the chin or nose touches the knees breathe in and breathe out breath awareness of the whole body breathing breathe out breathe balls one more breath breathe in and exhale release the head down relax the legs slide them down onto the ground let the legs feed wanted to be the part but the total Fallout to the side and the Arms by your sides [Applause] relax the whole body [Applause] I'm aware the natural below and the breath so let's take our attention to our tones [Applause] [Applause] foreign [Applause] left arms [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] the whole body [Applause] on the right side [Applause] slowly and gently all the way back up too comfortable to be completed position [Applause] class like it if you like or if Lotus or half notice look at the spine top a more practice some breathing techniques so the spine tall let's bring our hands and together [Applause] or energy of the body so index finger and thumb are lightly touchy the backs of the hands rest ing in museum foreign impact abdomen and the hair comes out of the nose the inhalation happens on its own okay we'll take 20 repetitions of kapalabati breathing so let's close the eyes take your teeth drop it through the nose and we'll take twenty thousands let's begin relax [Applause] High School [Applause] notice the energy [Applause] when you feel ready to open your eyes good then we'll do a knottyama or alternate nostril so let's bring the left hand into yeah [Music] thank you [Applause] [Applause] [Music] foreign today always very shortly we will be having Among Us so I request everyone who are standing there near the country statue this is not the place for standing I request everyone to go and take your position take your position on a yoga mat please clear that area I request everyone please take your petition foreign [Music] [Music] Excellency distinguished participants sisters and brothers now let's say my name is Denise Sato and I am the Mistress of Ceremonies for today's event here at the U.N northlawn building Yogi day 2023 already nine years can you believe it yoga day 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very important [Music] 23 23 nine years [Applause] 2023. here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very warm welcome to each and every one of you joining in person but also to those who are watching or listening to the live webcast this is a very special yoga event I don't have to tell you that because most of you already know we're experiencing a historic moments in time today as we celebrate this ninth anniversary of world yoga day we're honored to be joined by The Honorable prime minister of India three Lorenzo Modi [Applause] he'll be here with us very soon this year's theme for World yoga day is a Sanskrit verse which originates from the Indian scriptures and it Loosely translates to the concept that the whole world is one family Yoda's popularity has exploded to every corner of the globe and it only continues to grow we won't know that yoga embodies Unity Unity of mind or Consciousness and body thought and action restraint and fulfillment happening between Humanity or human family and all of nature a holistic approach to health well-being as well as experiencing a sense of Joy or balance and peace yoga is not only about physical awesomeness or just exercise although we are very familiar with the multitude of benefits and even spiritual fault the fullness and richness of yoga is about the suffering a sense of Oneness Oneness between considered Consciousness and the external world but also one is with the world in nature a defense connection to the meaning of life in the words of one of the most famous yoga practitioners yoga cultivates the ways of maintaining a balanced attitude in day-to-day life and in our skill in the performance of one's activities I want to share with you a brief overview of today's events as The Honorable prime minister of India arrives will be here with us on this very stage together with Her Excellency the permanent representative of India to the UN Ambassador ruchira Campos I who is the president of the United Nations General Assembly and Eric Adams who is the mayor of the city of New York lesson and we all follow a common yoga teaching so that we can have a yoga practice and experience that at the same time our yoga instructor Miss annalization and these are the ones who deserve a lot of credit I'll call them out so you know who they are because this youngsters will be on the stage with us are send Marie and Gaza lyric tonic Ani Daniela Walcott whiskey color Wu and Charlotte both will have other youngsters joining us along on the North Lawn in this first row some of them are here already and these youngsters are Kahari careless Wyatt Santiago advice and giving support yes the yoga session will last for roughly 20 minutes and after that The Honorable prime minister story I will announce the arrival of the Prime Minister of India when he arrives at U.S headquarters here and I ask that each and every one of you take position and I expect that everybody will be ready on their yoga mat for the lesson I also request that everyone in our audience to please remain seated please don't move around in case you need any of the people or assistance whatsoever we have volunteers positions nearby and you will find them they are here to assist you when you have your yellow caps on you take a look around you'll see people with the yellow caps these are our volunteers here to assist should you need to use the facilities while you're here you'll find them to your right next to the Promenade by the East River for our different stations set up for your comfort feel free to wear your yoga Day shirts and I see that almost everybody and you look beautiful today I wish you could see yourself the way I feel it's really very very wonderful to see us gorgeous what a gorgeous group we have today here for World yoga day 2023. yay well how does it get any better than that right I guess the answer is um you may have noticed right here and there is a quote on the clock and if you haven't seen it yet uh after this event complete you may want to take a look and the quote is is the way this does the Blondie G was a special gift called India to the U.S and it's the very first sculpture of foundation here in New York only what God in the garden it was unveiled last December back in 2022 when the minister of the journal Affairs was here but he was chairing for the security Council back in December of 2022. and the Secretary General of the UN Mr Antonio Gutierrez and the president of the 77th unga Mr chavalo Karoshi and of course ambassador joined the external affairs minister of the gandhiji statue while the Prime Minister native foreign to come and unite within us to feel that in the resource that we have that connection of holy truly all with one another and that connection with the Earth with the Stillness that we all feel everything that Web of Life I would like before we start within the next few minutes friends now come to stores as they are prime minister joins us tribute as he does to the gandhiji statue I ask that we remain seated in our father thank you as you can see the honorable prime minister of India freeing a regular motig has arrived and he is now being followed by many people thank you and he is now being followed by many people foreign [Music] foreign thank you for continuing to stay in your spot and be seated we will start the program very shortly and again if you need any assistance whatsoever we have our volunteers standing by to help they're wearing their yellow caps so that you may identify them easily you can see many sculptures that we have here on the North Lawn but today the gandhiji statue is one that is so dear to many of us here the principles that he holds and the concept of ahimsa is one that many of us are very familiar with that many world leaders are embodying and we see this as we look around to many people who aim to be the change that they want to see in the world thank you [Applause] foreign [Applause] [Applause] practitioner I'd like to remind everyone himself back in December 2014 who introduced the idea of establishing world of yoga day to continuing General Assembly a record number of 175 member states recognized yoga's Universal appeal and adopted The Landmark resolution while claiming June 21 as International yoga day the day of the summer solstice here in the north so every 21 of June this world yoga day this day provides people people everywhere across the globe all of us and everyone watching is opportunity [Applause] indeed an invaluable gift to the world from India's ancient tradition it is now celebrated worldwide with the enthusiasm and figure I will now begin the official part of today's event [Applause] India's permanent representative to the United Nations to the stage to deliver her opening remarks foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] ladies and Gentlemen please see so many around the world Gather in solidarity it is articulation [Applause] still be all the time I hope all of you that cherished 21st June this year and hold it close to your heart today and forever thank you [Applause] thank you Ambassador Campbell's for your Rewards it's my turn now to invite The Honorable president of the U.N generally assembly Mr Java Karoshi for these days we will promise is there a difference there's a way United points about it and also the environment and us the most memorable University lectures I attended is so we're on cultural conditions ancient Eastern civilizations they helped me understand exactly [Applause] twice regarding ourselves I also learned energy in the universe and inside us right single a designer which is [Applause] but more importantly it can spark in us [Applause] we learn how to make a change [Applause] who has already reached a high level of practice next to her I understand the guide which is [Applause] on violence in other words you'll get you to live increase in reality to sustainable not overusing resources that belong towards not prioritizing children super planetary boundaries of world communities just as it needs recognition of moral response IGN but let me apologize and the positions which you will show [Applause] but still I'm here with an open house thank you for highlighting the transformative and such a very personal day at this time [Applause] New York things [Applause] Secretary General [Applause] New York city is the largest and most important city in America City I share with you today that we are no longer focused solely on the physical body with the anatomy of our spirit far too long we have separated with our needs we are going to go to the boys [Applause] four to eight children to have within exercises in the morning as they start this whole day to challenge the mental health there's a larger challenge for all of us what we do on the math and practicing yoga must become what we do on these streets and in our cultures we cannot become universally connected through the yellow Maps we lay on when disconnected as we move through our communities it was the spirit and emotions of yoga Challenge and fight against War to fight against gender oppression to fight against violence to fight against the lack of clean water to fight against big bold insecurity to fight against the destruction of our planet our connectivity is not only are we connected to our families and our parents we have two mothers one gave birth to us and one sin sustains us yoga keeps us connected to both mothers and connected to each other this International yoga days and international call [Applause] are proud to be here and I'm proud to symbolically represent this city as statement into the yoga day it's an international call that we will be a leader here in New York City as you are a leader in your own environment thank you for allowing me to Rejoice with you [Applause] in hell yeah it was suitable to their anatomy of most stewards we appreciate that perspective and important I'd like now to go to the video message of the U.S Secretary General Antonio Gutierrez who is not available to be with us in person that is here in your spirit please let us go to the videotape for all your son  Indian nature and immediately [Applause] in Adventures it's an essential practice of particularly precious [Applause] mental well-being it tells us without discipline and patience [Applause] you know friends who is one of the deepest animals [Applause] to no one else Hospital s [Applause] your Excellency [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] mayor of New York and my dear friends from all over the world [Applause] France on this fine morning we are together here and the United Nations at the meeting point of entire Humanity it is far away most of you have Before Sunrise I'm delighted to see you all and I thank you all for coming friends [Applause] almost every nationality is represented here today and an amazing God to bring us all together yoga yoga means to unite so you are coming together in an expression of another form of yoga I remember about nine years ago right here [Music] I have the honor to propose celebrating the International Day of yoga on 21st June it was wonderful to see the entire world to support the idea back then who just paid respect is 1950 new Memorial to be built at the UN in that memory and lastly the whole world India make this reality soon Nation we are grateful to All Nations for their respirations of all to this noble cause last year the entire world came together to support India's proposal to celebrate 20 1953 at the international year of Village malays are a superfood holistic environment it is wonderful to see the entire world friends [Music] a very old tradition but like all ancient Indian traditions it is also living and dynamic yoga is playing from copyright [Applause] creative [Music] and free from royalty [Music] yoga is adaptable to your age gender and princess yoga is [Applause] [Music] no light popular you can practice it alone [Applause] yoga unifying it is [Applause] all culture Universal right when we do yoga we feel physically fit mentally calm and emotionally content but it is not just about doing exercise on a man yoga is a way of life a holistic approach to healthy [Applause] [Music] [Applause] with others I am delighted that many of you are working on scientifically validating different aspects of yoga will be received the way right I know we are all the king to get started well so am I I want to thank the United Nations [Applause] [Music] [Applause] and most of her want to thank you all once again for being here today let us use the power of yoga not only to be healthy happy but also to me trying to our [Music] [Applause] [Applause] foreign [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] thank you thank you foreign [Applause] dignitaries please leave the stage and join us [Applause] thank you foreign [Applause] on the stage we're going to prepare the stage so that we can get it ready for our yoga lesson [Applause] I've mentioned before that we'll have six energetic youngsters leading us along with Miss adelie's Richmond in this lesson and we have more in the first row here on the North Lawn joining us so that people be home can also follow that way too much I'm requesting that everyone stay in your yoga mat in your spot and to follow our yoga instructor and our yoga practitioners to the best of our ability [Applause] [Applause] this is who will now start our yoga session thank you a very warm welcome to our honorable prime minister modiji and dignitaries it is an honor to have you with us in our midst we are delighted namaste [Applause] let us all enter into the world of yoga together can you hear me in the back yes let's bring our hands together in front of the heart and prayer pose the shoulders relaxed and we'll do an invocation together we'll be checking all three times together let's close the eyes [Applause] let's take a deep breath in [Applause] breathe out [Applause] [Music] thank you [Music] [Applause] [Applause] so much problems [Applause] let's hope again [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] foreign [Music] [Applause] exercises to increase the circulation in the body so let's stand up we'll start in summer City alert posture so the feet two to three inches apart from each other in parallel tall and let's bring our hands onto our knees we'll do neck exercises first be careful in case of any neck injuries or cervical spondylitis let's inhale stretch the spine exhale bring the chin to the chest as much as you can all the way to the chest all raise the head back up exhale left kitchen and head fall back face to the sky inhale head to the center exhale into the chest relax inhale bring the head back to the center tail let the head go back stretching the front of the neck and one more time inhale to the center exhale to the chest stretch the back of the neck inhale the head into the center you could smile and exhale let the head go back gently open the throat and chest inhale back to the center relax good keeping the hands on the waist well truth is inhale stand tall exhale turn the chin over the right shoulder look all the way over to the right through the stretch the left side of the neck inhale back to the center smile exhale the chin over the left shoulder feel the stretch [Applause] the eyes inhale back to the center breathe in exhale chin over the left shoulder look to the left good inhale come back to the center and exhale relax now we'll do trunk drifting to warm up the body and spine be careful of any spinal injuries so let's bring the feet one foot apart [Applause] oh pale take the arm dot in front of you that's parallel to each other exhale keep the hips where they are turn just the upper body to the right left Palms toward the right shoulder look to the right good inhale come back to the center goodbye Palms facing each other exhale twist the upper body to the left palm facing the left shoulder good inhale come back looking for Palms facing each other exhale twist just the upper body to the right look to the right left left shoulder good inhale come back to the center and exhale to adjust the upper body to the left right arm towards the left smile [Applause] exhale relax now let's start our yoga asanas our yoga postures we'll start with tadasana the palm tree house if you have any arthritis in the lower extremities two to three inches apart from each other and inhale raise the arms up to shoulder height exhale cross the fingers and push the Palms away from you good inhale raise the arms up exhale here lengthen the spine inhale come up onto the toes and breathe here breathe in and breathe out breathe and breathe out slowly lower down toss the hands slowly this Awareness on the body lower the arms good and relaxed [Applause] inhale grow tall exhale Slide the fingers back to support the back elbows in parallel behind the back and inhale let the head go back clean the front of the back as you exhale Bend from the love bar spine go back and carefully if you stay as far back as you can and let's Breathe Here breathe in and breathe out Breathe In and Out Awareness on the whole body breathe in and breathe out good inhale lift the chest come back up slowly good because exhale relax good it feels good take the forward posture so keeping the feet in parallel to the three inches apart from each other inhale take the arms up from the front all the way up and exhale bending only from the hip joint keep the legs straight start to reach forward stretch your fingertips forward until your body is like a table parallel to the ground and now slowly lower the fingertips down either bring the hands to The Shins or fingertips to the ground or the Palms on the ground if you can drop your head towards your knees let's take a few deep breaths breathe in without the life straight en as you breathe out head towards knees breathe in breathe out a little further breathe in and breathe out good inhale Slide the fingertips forward stretch the arms forward let the bathtub Open Arms breathe in slowly all the way up smile excellent and we'll go to the floor [Music] you can just stretch the legs out in front of you put your hands behind your back in a relaxed posture this is our relaxation pose and now let's bring the feet together toes pointing up to the sky and up to the side to his spine top because lengthen your spine good exhale posture so be careful in this posture in case of sciatica bring the leaves together soles of the feet together exhale wrap your hands around your feet good inhale sit tall and exhale pull the heels as close as you can to the perineum relax if you like you can even close your eyes here breathe in exhale let the knees drop towards the ground inhale and exhale inhale exhale breathe into the whole box and breathe under gently stretch the legs back out put the hands behind your back recline back just a little again let the head fall back on the edge [Applause] good and again pose be careful of this pose in case of ankle or knees let's inhale take the right heel towards the right leg inhale left heel heel towards the left buttocks place the buttocks in the space between the toes hands on the knees and you can gain sausages let's take a few deep breaths but the awareness of the whole body [Applause] [Music] [Applause] when you feel ready [Applause] [Applause] so let's inhale here bring the elbows to work each other behind the back actually chest to the sky three minutes breathe out in [Applause] um One More Time read them and out inhale come back up slowly with awareness of the whole body good exhale exactly and relax forward so we'll take Sasha Katana the hair posture so be careful because of osteoarthritis [Applause] inhale open the knees exhale let's put the hand between the legs inhale lengthen your spine and exhale slide forward gently and slowly all the way keeping the hips arms to parallel with each other bring the chin to the ground and relax the whole body if the chin doesn't want to touch the ground break the forehead down and relax breathe into your hips breathe in breathe out breathe out [Applause] one more gentle breath in and out good inhale come back up slowly put the awareness on the whole body breathe in exhale and we'll take the stretch so inhale and take the knees to the side again if this is bothering your knees inhale take the arms up from the front just five mile and exhale Bend from the elbows Only The Palms off the alternate shoulder blades right palm on the left shoulder blade left palm on the right shoulder blade see if you can keep the chin parallel to the Earth and let's take a few feet breathe out breathe into the chest take it out [Applause] raise the arms up the exhale at the moment you've been waiting for let's slide down come all the way down [Applause] [Music] to the side turn the head put it onto the panels [Applause] [Applause] together take the arms out in front of you you can have them resting on the ground broken be careful of this whole thing or any abdominal instruments inhale bring the hands underneath the shoulder elbows close to the body exhale secure and inhale lift the head the two chest upper chest until the table and three wheels breathe out relax the shoulders push them down and back breathe in and breathe out breathe in and about one more breath in you can go higher and exhale slowly lower down again make the pillow with the hands and that has the time to the left side legs apart the dial pose Rusty in the Sun let the breath relax [Applause] gently rolls [Applause] the wind is posture so inhale and bring the knees out exhale bring the knees to the chest towards the chest you inhale press the fingers together place them on The Shins wrap the arms around the legs exhale bring the forehead towards the knees until the chin or nose touches the knees breathe in and breathe out deep breath awareness of the whole body breathing breathe out one more breath breathe in and exhale release the head down relax the legs slide them down onto the ground let the legs feed one to two feet apart but the toes fall out to the sides and the Arms by your sides [Applause] of course relax the whole body [Applause] become aware the natural so let's take our attention to our toes [Applause] foreign [Applause] hi [Applause] [Applause] um [Applause] [Applause] on the top IC [Applause] thank you so long after [Applause] me on the right side [Applause] slowly and gently come all the way back up position you could sit class like it if you like or if Lotus or half Lotus sit with a spine top a more practice some breathing techniques so the spine tall let's bring our hands full dress abujra is a hand position with a Jurassic flow of Prana or energy in the body so index fingers thumb are lightly touchy and the backs of the hands resting on the back that's good foreign the eyes bit through the nose and we'll take twenty thousands let's begin relax [Applause] all over the body when you feel ready you can open your eyes good then we'll do a naughty short enough or alternate nostril breathing so let's bring the left hand into yeah foreign [Music] [Applause] [Applause] [Music] thank you congratulations I request everyone I request everyone whoever standing on the way very shortly we will be having Among Us so I request everyone who are standing there near the Gandhi statue this is not the place for standing I request everyone to go and take your position take your position on a yoga mat please clear that area I request everyone please take your petition [Music] foreign [Music] North Lawn building today 2023 already nine years can you believe it yoga day 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very warm Sunday 2023 already nine years if you believe it yoga day 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very warm welcome to each and every one of you joining in person but also to those who are watching or listening to the live webcast this is a very special yoga event I don't have to tell you that because most of you already know we're experiencing a historic moment in time today as we celebrate this ninth anniversary of world yoga day we're honored to be joined by The Honorable prime minister of India Today Lorenzo Modi [Applause] he'll be here with us very soon this year's theme for World yoga day is a Sanskrit verse which originates from the Indian scriptures and it Loosely translates to the concept that the whole world is one family Yoda's popularity has exploded to every corner of the globe and it only continues to grow we won't know that yoga embodies Unity Unity of mind or Consciousness and body thought and action restraint and fulfillment between Humanity our human family and all of nature a holistic approach to health well-being as well as experiencing a sense of Joy or balance and peace yoga is not only about physical awesomeness or just exercise although we are very familiar with the multitude of benefits that it can have on one second mental and even spiritual form the fullest and richness of yoga is about the suffering a sense of Oneness goodness between considered Consciousness and the external world but also one is with the world in nature a defense connection to the meaning of life in the words of one of the most famous yoga practitioners yoga cultivates the ways of maintaining a balanced attitude in day-to-day life in the performance of one's activities I'd like to share with you a brief overview of today's events as The Honorable prime minister of India arrives will be here with us on this very stage together with Her Excellency the permanent representative of India to the U.N Ambassador which who is the president of the United Nations Federal assembly and Mr Eric Adams who is the mayor of the city of New York [Music] yoga teaching so that we can have a yoga practice and experience that at the same time together our yoga instructor is leading the demonstration along with the youngsters and these are the ones who deserve a lot of credit I'll call them out so you know who they are the six youngsters will be on the stage with us are send Marie and Gaza lyric pronig Ani Daniela welcome whiskey both will have other youngsters joining us along the north lawn in this first row some of them are here already and these youngsters are Kahari Carlos graceful product Wyatt Santiago advice support long long yes the yoga session will last for roughly 20 minutes and after that The Honorable prime minister of India is the arrival of the Prime Minister of India when he arrives at U1 headquarters here and I ask that each and every one of you take position and I expect that everybody will be ready on their yoga mat for the lesson I also request that everyone in our audience to please remain seated please don't move around in case you need any assistance [Music] whatsoever we have volunteers positioned nearby and you will find them they're here to listen to you these are our volunteers here to assist should you need to use the facilities while you're here you'll find them to your right next to the Promenade by the East River there are different stations set up for your comfort feel free to wear your yoga Day shirts and I see that almost everybody has the mom and you look beautiful today I wish you could see yourself the way I feel it was really very very funny it is gorgeous what a gorgeous group we have today here for World yoga day 2023. yay well how does it get any better than that right I guess the answer is um you may have noticed right here I'm working on we have a beautiful books which says there is no way to peace was a special gift called India to the U.S and it's the very first sculpture Foundation here in New York on the North Broad and the garments it was unveiled last December back in 2022 when the minister of external affairs minister Jenny Shankar was here but he was chairing the security Council back in December of 2022. of the Secretary General that we will Mr Antonio Gutierrez and the president of the 77th unga Mr chavel okoroshi and of course Ambassador Cambodia joined the external affairs minister of the gandhiji statue while the Prime Minister gave a foreign another and that connection with the Earth is trees that we all feel that deep space life I would like before we start in the next few minutes as they are prime minister joins us paying tribute as he does to the gandhiji statue I ask that we remain seated in our father as you can see the honorable prime minister of India freeing a regular motiji has arrived and he is now being powered by Medical and he is now being followed by many people foreign [Music] foreign foreign thank you for continuing to stay in your spot and be seated we will start the program very shortly and again if you need any assistance whatsoever we have our volunteers standing by to help they're wearing their yellow caps so that you may identify them easily you can see many sculptures that we have here on the North Lawn but today the gandhiji statue is one that is so dear to many of us here the principles that he holds and the concept of ahimsa is one that many of us are very familiar with that many world leaders are embodying and we see this as we look around to many people who aim to be the change that they want to see in the world together [Applause] one two one two three today [Applause] [Applause] again [Applause] a distinguished world leader and I'd like to remind everyone himself back in December 2014 who introduced the idea of establishing world of yoga day to the UN General Assembly a record number of 175 member states recognized yoga's Universal appeal and adopted The Landmark resolution while claiming June 21 as International yoga day the day of the summer solstice here in the north so average 21 of June this world yoga day this day provides people [Applause] [Applause] it is celebrate worldwide when the enthusiasm and bigger I will now begin the official part of today's event by requesting ambassador of handles India's permanent representative to the United Nations to the stage to deliver her opening remarks foreign [Applause] [Applause] United States [Applause] leadership and under his guidance was declared as International yoga day and it is only fitting therefore that the inspiration behind the idea is because today is the ceiling multifunctional setting of The United Nations ladies and Gentlemen please I was supposed to see so many around the world together with solidarity articulation [Applause] we still be on time I hope all of you will cherish 21st June this year and hold it close to your hearts today and forever thank you [Applause] thank you new Ambassador Campos for your remarks it's my turn now to invite The Honorable president of the U.N generally assembly Mr Chavez for these days ways away from United flights and also the environment and us the most memorable University lectures I attended students were on cultural Traditions ancient Eastern civilizations they helped me understand that we are part of which despite regarding ourselves I also learned that the energies in the universe and inside us abide [Applause] Yoga challenges our physical performance but more importantly because [Applause] [Applause] the guide [Applause] in other words you'll manage to live in peace not overusing resources that belong towards not prioritizing children boundaries of world communities just as it makes recognition of moral responsibilities cherishing peace but let me apologize and the positions which you will show myself um [Applause] thank you presidential for highlighting the transformative on such a very personal day at this time is the mayor of the city of New York please take these days [Applause] without the significance of this model New York city is the largest important to the city in America as I stand before that City I share with you that we are no longer focused solely on a physical body with Humanity about spirit for far too long we have separated with our leaders we are going to go to the movies [Applause] to allowing our children to have breathing exercises in the morning as they start the school day to challenge the mental Republic there's a larger challenge for all of us what do we do on the map and practicing yoga must become what we do on the streets and in our homes we cannot become universally connected through the yellow Maps we lay on but disconnected as we move through our communities use the spirit and emotions of yoga it's a challenge and fight against War to fight against gender oppression to fight against violence to fight against the lack of clean water to fight against big mood insecurity to fight against the destruction of our planet our connectivity is not only are we connected to our families and our parents we have two mothers one gave birth to us and one sin sustains us yoga keeps us connected to both mothers and connected to each other this International yoga days and international call for us to stand up for humankind across the globe in all proud to be here I'm proud to symbolically represent this city as stated the international yoga day is an international call that we will be a leader here in New York City as you are a leader in your home environment thank you for allowing me to Rejoice with you today [Applause] we appreciate that perspective and important to go to the video message of the U.S Secretary General Antonio Gutierrez who is not available to be with us in person please let us go to the videotape foreign [Applause] stop the adventures the benefits of his social practice are particularly precious log of offers to promote mental well-being it helps us to help discipline and patience it connects us to our planet which so badly means of protection and it reveals our common Humanity stopping us to understand that despite our differences we are going [Applause] [Applause] friends [Applause] in my life [Applause] to no one else that The Honorable prime minister of India foreign [Applause] [Music] mayor of New York and my dear friends from all over the world namaste [Applause] friends on this fine morning we are together here at the United Nations at the winning point of entire Humanity in this wonderful seriously I know many of you have come here come far away most of you have one kind of Before Sunrise I am delighted to see you all and I thank you all for coming thank you friends [Applause] know that almost every nationality is represented here today and what are the average cost to bring us all together yoga yoga means to unite so you are coming together yoga [Music] I remember about nine years ago right here [Music] I have the honor to propose celebrating the International Day of yoga on 21st June it was wonderful to see the entire world came together to support the idea back then I've just made respect to the prayer between us in 1950 new Memorial to be built at the U.N in that memory and lastly the whole world is India make this reality soon at the largest to continuity Nations grateful to All Nations for the restoration of support to this Noble God last year the entire world came together to support India's proposal to celebrate 20 1923 at the international year of Village malays are a superfood holistic health it is good for environment too it is wonderful to see the entire world come together again foreign but like all ancient Indian traditions will also leaving and dining yoga is free from copyright [Applause] free competence and increase [Music] yoga is adaptable to your age gender and fitness flavor foreign [Applause] [Music] [Applause] foreign Universal [Applause] when we do yoga we feel physically fit mentally calm and emotionally content but it is not just about doing exercise on a man yoga is a way of life our Holy Spirit [Music] a way to mindfulness in thoughts [Music] [Applause] will save nature I am delighted that many of you are working on scientifically dominating different aspects of yoga will be received survey friends I know we are all King to get started well [Applause] I am grateful to the mere and New York but all that is in supporting people success and most of her want to thank you all once again what we have today let us use the power of yoga not only to be healthy happy but also to be kind to ourselves and each other they just use the power of no God will three days of frenzy a peaceful world and a cleaner theater and sustainable future enhance [Applause] [Music] [Applause] foreign [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] thank you foreign [Applause] [Applause] thank you friends I'm now going to call upon yoga instructor Miss annalize Richmond so that she will join on the stage we're going to prepare the stage so that we can get it ready for our yoga lesson [Applause] I've mentioned before that we'll have six energetic youngsters leading us along with Miss annalize Richmond in this lesson and we have more in the first row here on the North Lawn joining us so that people be home can also follow that way too [Applause] I'm a question that everyone stay on your yoga mat in your spot and to follow our yoga instructor instructor in our yoga practitioners to the best of our ability yeah [Applause] oh yeah oh yeah it's such a beautiful morning to have this opportunity the sun is not so strong and we have a nice freeze coming through which makes for a very unpleasant morning for us to all share in this Collective room I'm delighted now who will now start our yoga session thank you a very warm welcome to our honorable prime minister modiji and dignitaries it is an honor to have you with us in our midst we are delighted namaste [Applause] let us all enter into the world of yoga together can you hear me in the back let's bring our hands together in front of the heart and prayer pose look at the shoulders relaxed and we'll do an invocation together we'll be checking only three times together let's close the eyes [Applause] let's take a deep breath in here [Music] [Applause] questions [Applause] [Music] [Music] [Applause] [Applause] [Music] someone foreign [Music] [Applause] [Music] thank you [Applause] [Music] when you feel ready and gently open your eyes we'll start our yoga sadhana our yoga practice with some loosening exercises to increase the circulation in the body so let's stand up [Applause] two to three inches apart from each other in parallel spine tall and let's bring our hands onto our knees hold your neck exercises first be careful in case of any lack injuries or cervical spondylitis in heel stretch the spine exhale bring the chin to the chest as much as you can all the way to the chest raise the head back up exhale left kitchen and head fall back face to the sky inhale head to the center exhale into the chest relax inhale bring the head back to the center tail let the head go back stretching the front of the neck and one more time inhale to the center exhale to the Jazz judge the back of the neck nailed ahead to get a smile then exhale let the head go back gently open the throat with the chest inhale back to the center relax inhale stand tall exhale turn the chin over the right shoulder look all the way over to the right through the stretch the left side of the neck inhale back into the center smile exhale the chin over the left shoulder feel the stretch exhale tip over the right shoulder look as far as you can with the eyes inhale back to the center breathe in exhale chin over the left shoulder look to the left good inhale come back to the center and exhale now we'll do trunk drifting to warm up the body and spine be careful of any spinal injuries so let's bring the feet one foot apart [Applause] pale take the arms out in front of you parallel to each other exhale keep the hips where they are turn just the upper body to the right left Palms towards the right shoulder look to the right good inhale come back to the center goodbye Palms facing each other exhale twist the upper body to the left palm facing the left shoulder good inhale come back looking forward Palms facing each other exhale twist just the upper body to the right look to the right left palm to the right shoulder good inhale come back to the center foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] and inhale raise the arms up to shoulder height exhale cross the fingers and push the Palms away from you good inhale raise the arms up exhale here lengthen the spine inhale come up onto the toes and breathe here breathe in and breathe out [Music] [Applause] breathe come on breathe out slowly lower down across the hands slowly lift Awareness on the body lower the arms down good and relaxed and now again posture take a back bend if you have anywhere to go or back injuries be careful so are that success in a half wheel posture let's take the hands [Music] grow tall exhale Slide the fingers back to support the back elbows in parallel behind the back inhale let the head go back as far back as you can and let's Breathe Here breathe in and breathe out Breathe In and Out Awareness on the whole body breathe in and breathe out good inhale lift the chest come back up slowly good because exhale relax posture so keeping the feet in parallel to the three inches apart from each other inhale take the arms up from the front all the way up and exhale bending only from the hips the legs straight start to reach forward stretch your fingertips forward until your body is like a table parallel to the ground and now slowly lower the fingertips down either bring the hands to The Shins or brows or the Palms on the ground if you can drop your head towards your knees let's take a few deep breaths breathe in and out the legs straight breathe in as you breathe out head towards knees breathe in breathe out a little further breathe in and breathe out [Applause] all the way up smile excellent and we'll go to the floor [Music] just stretch the legs out in front of you put your hands behind your back in a relaxed posture and go back this is our relaxation pose and now let's bring the feet together toes pointing up to the sky and that's the side to his spine top because inhale lengthen your spine good exhale posture so be careful in this posture in case it's sciatica I'll bring the beads together those are the feet together exhale wrap your hands around your feet good inhale sit tall and exhale pull the heels as close as you can to the perineum relax if you like you can even close your eyes here breathe in exhale let the knees drop towards the ground inhale and exhale exhale inhale exhale breathe into the whole box breathing and breathe under gently stretch the legs back out with the hands behind your back we climb back just a little again let the head fall back [Applause] good and again pose be careful of this clothes in case of ankle or knees let's inhale take the right heel towards the right back inhale left heel heel towards the left buttocks place the buttocks in the space between the toes hands on the knees and you can engage softly down let's take a few deep breaths but the awareness of a whole lot [Applause] [Music] [Applause] more breath previous ly when you feel ready [Applause] [Applause] so let's inhale here bring the elbows to work together behind the back let the head fall back and exhale Bend backwards from the upper back Wards breathe out in all three down one more time breathing and out inhale come back up slowly with awareness of the whole body good exhale exactly and relax forward so we'll take Sasha casana the hair posture so be careful because of osteoarthritis [Applause] inhale open the knees exhale let's put the hands between the legs inhale lengthen your spine and exhale slide forward gently and slowly all the way keeping the hands arms and parallel with each other bring the chin to the ground and relax the whole body if the chin doesn't want to touch the ground break the forehead and relax breathe into your hips breathe in breathe out breathe out [Applause] one more gentle breath in and out inhale come back up slowly put the awareness on the whole body breathe in exhale closing and we'll take the stretched up from Papa so inhale and take the knees to the side again if this is bothering your knees you can put it in a different position inhale take the arms up from the front stretch the spine smile and exhale Bend from the elbows only The Palms off the alternate shoulder blades right palm on the left shoulder blade left palm on the right shoulder blade see if you can keep the chin parallel to the Earth and let's take him through the US breathe out breathe [Applause] [Applause] [Music] come all the way down make a pillow with the hair turn your head to the right side take your feet apart or so let them stay out to the side turn the head onto the hands knocking off the crocodile you're like a crocodile resting in the Sun [Applause] together [Applause] take the arms out in front of you can have the rescue grab protein be careful of this clothing kickas [Applause] inhale bring the hands underneath the shoulder elbows close to the body [Applause] breathe out feet in about one more breath in because it will hire and exhale slowly lower down again make the pillow with the hands and that has the time to the left side legs apart the dial of the hose resting in the Sun [Applause] thank you well gently let's turn onto our back gently rolls [Applause] in the Wind Free imposter so inhale oh exhale bring the knees to the chest towards the chest you inhale press the fingers together place them on The Shins wrap the arms around the legs exhale bring the forehead towards the knees then tilt the chin or nose touches the knees breathe in and breathe out deep breath awareness of the whole body breathe in breathe out one more breath breathe in exhale release the head down relax the legs down onto the ground let the legs feed one to two feet apart and the Arms by your sides [Applause] on the ground [Applause] relax the whole body [Applause] I'm aware the natural flow of the breath so let's take our attention to our tones [Applause] yes [Applause] bye so right right [Applause] left arms [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] on the top the whole body [Applause] going on [Applause] slowly take a deep breakfast [Applause] [Applause] slowly and gently all the way back up too comfortable to be completed position you can set it fast like it if you like or in Lotus or half Lotus sit with a spine tall a more practice except breathing techniques so the spine tall let's bring our hands and take your dress mudra is a hand position with a dress the flow of Prana for energy in the body so index fingers thumb are lightly touchy on the backs of the hands resting on the back [Applause] like this the inhalation happens on its own okay we'll take 20 repetitions of kapalabati reading so let's close the eyes [Applause] let's begin [Applause] is [Applause] notice the energy all over the body when you feel ready you can open your eyes good then we'll do a naughty short enough from Yama or alternate nostril breathing so let's bring the left hand into yeah [Music] this is true [Applause] [Applause] [Music] foreign the day very shortly we will be having Among Us so I request everyone who are standing there near the Gandhi statue this is not the place for standing I request everyone to go and take your position take your position on a yoga mat please clear that area please thank you machine [Music] [Music] thank you Excellency participants sisters and brothers Namaste my name is Denise starter and I am the Mistress of Ceremonies for today's event here at the U land northlawn Building day 2023 already nine years can you believe it yoga day 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very important [Music] [Applause] here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very warm welcome to each and every one of you joining in person but also to those who are watching or listening to the live webcast this is a very special yoga event I don't have to tell you that because most of you already know we're experiencing a historic moment in time today as we celebrate this ninth anniversary of world yoga day we're honored to be joined by The Honorable prime minister of India three Lorenzo Modi [Applause] you'll be here with us very soon this year's theme for World yoga day is we have it right here foreign which originates from the Indian scriptures and it Loosely translates to the concept that the whole world is one family Yoda's popularity has exploded to every corner of the globe and it only continues to grow we well know that yoga embodies Unity Unity of mind or Consciousness and body thought and action restraint and fulfillment happening between Humanity or human family and all of nature a holistic approach to health well-being as well as experiencing a sense of Joy or balance although we are very familiar with the multitude of benefits the fullest and richness of yoga is about to suffering a sense of Oneness Wellness between considered Consciousness and the external world but also Oneness with the world in nature a deepens connection to the meaning of life in the words of one of the most famous yoga practitioners yoga cultivates the ways of maintaining a balanced attitude in day-to-day life and in our skill performance of one's activities I want to share with you a brief overview of today's events as The Honorable prime minister of India arrives will be here with us on this very stage together with Her Excellency the permanent representative of India to the U.N Ambassador mujira Campbell also with respectively Mr Chapo Karoshi who is the president of the United Nations Federal assembly and [Music] yoga teaching so that we can have a yoga practice and experience that at the same time [Music] and Gaga lyric tonic Asian mukhani Daniela welcome whiskey color blue and Charlotte both will have other youngsters joining us Below on the north wall in this first row some of them are here already and these youngsters are Kahari Carlos graceful product Wyatt Santiago advice Zachary Han and long line is here joining them and giving support yes the yoga session will last for roughly 20 minutes and after that The Honorable prime minister story I will announce the arrival of the Prime Minister of India when he arrives at unco Corners here and I ask that each and every one of you take position and I expect that everybody will be ready on their yoga mat for the lesson I also request that everyone in our audience to please remain seated please don't move around in case you need any help or assistance whatsoever we have volunteers positioned nearby and you will find them they're here to assist you they have your yellow caps off you take a look around you'll see people with the yellow caps these are our volunteers here to assist should you need to use the facilities while you're here you'll find them to your right next to the Promenade by the East River for our different stations set up for your comfort feel free to wear your yoga Day shirts and I see that almost everybody has them on and you look beautiful today I wish you could see yourself the way it was really very very wonderful it is gorgeous what a gorgeous group we have today here for World yoga day 2023. yay well how does it get any better than that right I guess the answer is um you may have noticed right here and there is a quote on the plaque and if you haven't seen it yet uh after this event concludes you may want to take a look and the quote is called a brownie G which says there is no way to keep this way this is a special gift called India to the US and it's the very first culture of foundation here in New York only what God last December back in 2022 when the minister of Journal Affairs here when he was chairing the security Council back in December of 2072. and the Secretary General of the UN Mr Antonio Gutierrez and the president of the 77th unga Mr chabala Karoshi and of course ambassador joined the external affairs minister of the gandhiji statue while the Prime Minister gave a foreign to come and unite within us to feel that in the resource that we have that connection of holy truly all that connection with one another and that connection with the Earth with the Stillness that we all feel everything that Web of Life I would like before we start in the next few minutes [Music] as The Honorable prime minister joins us paying tribute as he does to the gandhiji statue I ask that we remain seated in our father as you can see The Honorable prime minister of India free no regular motiji has arrived 20 years now being covered by many people and he is now being followed by many people foreign [Music] foreign foreign thank you for continuing to stay in your spot and be seated we will start the program very shortly and again if you need any assistance whatsoever we have our volunteers standing by to help they're wearing their yellow caps so that you may identify them easily you can see many sculptures that we have here on the North Lawn but today the gandhiji statue is one that is so dear to many of us here the principles that he holds and the concept of ahimsa is one that many of us are very familiar with that many world leaders are embodying and we see this as we look around to many people who aim to be the change that they want to see in the world together [Applause] one two three [Applause] I know today [Applause] a distinguished world leader and an important yoga practitioner I'd like to remind everyone [Applause] himself back in December 2014 who introduced the idea of establishing the world of yoga day to contributing General Assembly the record number of 175 member states recognized yoga's Universal appeal and adopted The Landmark resolution proclaiming June 21 as International yoga day the day of the summer solstice here in the north so at range 21 of June is World yoga day this day provides people people everywhere across the globe all of us and everyone watching an opportunity of practicing yoga indeed an invaluable gift for [Applause] I will now begin the official part of today's event by requesting ambassadors handles India's permanent representative to the United Nations to the stage to deliver her opening remarks thank you thank you distinguished ambassadors distinguished yet and all my dear friends and colleagues from this wonderful audience today's celebrations indeed very very special prime minister will lead us in doing yoga here and the United Nations lost [Applause] of the United Nations ladies and Gentlemen please see so many around the world Gather in solidarity today [Applause] foreign thank you is there a difference between United and also the environment and us the most memorable University lectures I attended is very uncultural Traditions ancient Eastern civilizations they helped me understand that [Applause] much despite regarding ourselves I also learned the energies in the universe and inside us abide by the same room a designer which is yoga but more importantly it can support in us different Mental Health [Applause] [Applause] who has already reached a high level of practice [Applause] agreed on audience in other words and guide to sustain not overusing resources that belong to all of us not prioritizing short-term means over planetary boundaries agent just as it states recognition of moral responsibilities cherishing peace I'm happy but let me apologize and the positions which you will show so [Applause] still I'm here with an open house [Applause] [Applause] the mayor of the city of New York please take the stage [Applause] Secretary General to everyone that this is significance of this model New York city is the largest and most important thing as I understand [Applause] I share with you today [Applause] far too long we have separated which are emotions [Applause] to allowing our children to have breathing exercises in the morning as they start this whole day to challenge me mental health there's a logical challenge for all of us [Applause] [Music] we cannot become universally connected through the yellow Mass we lay on when disconnected as we move through our communities give us the spirit and emotions of yoga to challenge and fight against War fight against gender oppression to fight against violence to fight against the lack of clean water to fight against big old insecurity to fight against the destruction of our planet our connectivity is not only are we connected to our families and our parents we have two mothers one gave birth to us and one sin sustains us yoga keeps us connected to both mothers and [Applause] humankind across the globe and all and all I'm proud to be here and I'm proud to symbolically represent this city as stated International yoga day is an international call that that we will be a leader here in New York City as you are a leader in your own environment thank you for allowing me to Rejoice with you today thank you Megan Ryan yoga is teachable to their anatomy of most Spirits we appreciate that perspective and important I'd like now to go to the video message of the UN Secretary General Antonio Antonio who is not available to be with us in person that is here in spirit please let us go to the videotape foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] International Day of yoga let us embrace the speed of unity and resolved with the better of our wondrous worlds of people planets and ourselves [Applause] stand up to no one else The Honorable prime minister of India let us know your Excellency [Applause] [Music] [Applause] foreign [Music] [Applause] on this fine morning we are together here at the United Nations at the winning point of entire Humanity in this wonderful serious I know many of you have come here from far away most of you have Before Sunrise I'm delighted to see you all and I thank you all for coming friends [Applause] know that almost every nationality is represented here today and whatever Gods to bring us all together yoga yoga means to United together in an expression of another form of yoga I remember about nine years ago right here [Music] I am the honor to propose celebrating the International Day of yoga on 21st June it was wonderful to see the entire world came together to support the idea Batman I've just paid respect to pray when we Skippers in 1950 new Memorial to be built at the U.N in that memory and lastly [Music] India make this reality soon at the largest to continuity Nations we are grateful to All Nations for the restoration of support to this noble cause last year the entire world came together to support India's proposal to celebrate 20 1923 at the international year of Village malays are a super food foreign but like all ancient Indian traditions it is also living and dining yoga is free from copyright [Applause] free confidence behind [Music] yoga is adaptable your age gender and fitness flavor yoga is forever you can do that oh whatever [Applause] you can practice it alone or in the group [Applause] yoga is unifying it means for everyone foreign Universal [Applause] right when we do yoga we feel physically fit mentally calm and emotionally content but it is not just about doing exercise on a man Noda is a way of my life I've always seen a problem [Music] a way to mindfulness is [Applause] I am delighted that many of you are working on scientifically validating different aspects of yoga will be received the way right I know we are all King to get started well so am I I want to thank the United Nations [Applause] [Applause] success and most of all want to thank you all once again for being here today let us use the power of yoga not only to be healthy happy but also to be kind to our [Music] [Applause] let us foreign [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] thank you thank you thank you foreign [Applause] [Applause] friends I'm now going to call upon yoga instructor Miss annalize Richmond so that she can joined on the stage we're going to prepare the stage so that we can get it ready for our yoga lesson [Applause] I've mentioned before that we'll have six energetic youngsters leading us along with Miss annalize Richmond in this lesson and we have more in the first row here on the North joining us so that people become can also follow that way too thank you I'm requesting that everyone stay yoga mat in your spot and to follow our yoga instructor in our yoga practitioners to the best of our ability [Applause] to have this opportunity the sun is not so strong [Applause] and we had a nice breeze coming Grill which makes for a very unpleasant morning for us to all share in this Collective room I'm delighted now who will now start our yoga session thank you a very warm welcome to our honorable prime minister modiji and dignitaries it is an honor to have you with us in our midst we are delighted namaste [Applause] let us all enter into the world of yoga together can you hear me in the back let's bring our hands together in front of the heart and prayer pose keep the shoulders relaxed I will do an invocation together we'll be checking all three times together let's close the eyes [Applause] let's take a deep breath in [Applause] um breathe out foreign [Applause] [Music] [Music] [Applause] [Applause] [Music] thank you [Applause] you give up [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Applause] uh beautiful [Applause] [Music] when you feel ready and gently open your eyes we'll start our yoga sadhana or yoga practice with some loosening exercises to increase the circulation in the body so let's stand up we'll start in summer sticky alert posture so the feet two to three inches apart from each other in parallel tall and let's bring our hands onto our face we'll do neck exercises first be careful in case of any left injury injury cervical spondylitis let's inhale stretch the spine exhale bring the chin to the chest as much as you can all the way to the chest all raise the head back up exhale left the chin and head fall back face to the sky inhale head to the center exhale into the chest inhale bring the head back to the center exhale let the head go back reaching the front of the neck and one more time inhale to the center exhale to the chest stretch the back of the neck inhale the head to the center you can smile then exhale let the head go back gently oh the chest inhale back to the center relax inhale stand tall exhale turn the chin over the right shoulder look all the way over to the right to the stretch to the left side of the neck inhale back into the center smile exhale the chin over the left shoulder feel the stretched inhale back to the center and exhale to over the right shoulder look as far as you can with the eyes inhale back to the center breathe in exhale chin over the left shoulder look to the left good inhale come back to the center and exhale relax now we'll do trunk twisting to warm up the body and spine be careful of any spinal injuries so let's bring the feet one foot apart [Applause] is tall inhale take the arms out in front of you hands parallel to each other exhale keep the hips where they are turn just the upper body to the right left Palms towards the right shoulder look for the right good inhale come back to the center Palms facing each other exhale twist the upper body to the left Palm facing the left shoulder good inhale come back looking forward Palms facing each other exhale twist just the upper body to the right roof to the right left palm shoulder good inhale come back to the center and exhale to just the upper body to prevent right arm towards the left smile [Applause] exhale relax now let's start our yoga asanas our yoga pastors we'll start with tadasana the palm tree pasta if you have any arthritis in the lower extremities don't think about your ankles in this posture so for today's apart from each other and inhale we raise the arms up to shoulder height exhale cross the fingers and push the Palms away from you good inhale raise the arms up exhale here lengthen the spine inhale come up onto the toes and breathe here breathe in and breathe out feet [Applause] the front of the hands slowly this Awareness on the body and lower the arms good and relaxed [Applause] half wheel posture let's take the hands inhale grow tall exhale Slide the fingers back to support the back elbows in parallel behind the back inhale let the head go back as far back as you can and let's Breathe Here breathe in and breathe out Breathe In and Out Awareness on the whole body breathe in and breathe out good inhale lift the chest come back up slowly good because exhale relax posture so keeping the feet in parallel to the three inches apart from each other inhale take the arms up from the front all the way up and exhale bending only from the hip joint keep the legs straight start to reach forward stretch your fingertips forward until your body is like a table parallel to the ground and now slowly lower the fingertips down either bring the hands to The Shins or fingertips to the ground or the Palms on the ground if you can drop your head towards your knees let's take a few deep breaths breathe in the leg straight en as you breathe out head towards knees breathe in breathe out a little further breathe in and breathe out good inhale Slide the fingertips forward stretch the arms forward let the back come open the arms breathe in slowly come all the way up smile yeah and we'll go to the floor [Music] you can just stretch the legs out in front of you put your hands behind your back in a relaxed posture this is our relaxation pose and now let's bring the feet together toes pointing up to the sky hands besides of his spine top because inhale lengthen your spine good exhale posture so be careful in this posturing case of sciatica bring the leaves together soles of the feet together exhale wrap your hands around your feet good inhale sit tall relax [Applause] if you like you can even close your eyes here breathe in I still let the knees drop towards to work around inhale and exhale inhale exhale breathe into the full box the gently stretch the legs back out put the hands behind her back we climb back just a little again let the head fall back [Applause] [Music] press down into the ground little later exhale will come into madrasa the diamond pose be careful of this clothes in case of ankle or any history let's inhale take the right heel towards the right back [Applause] [Music] let's take a few deep breaths that the awareness of a whole lot [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] more breath see this [Applause] [Applause] so let's inhale here bring the elbows to work each other behind the back let the head fall back and exhale Bend backwards from the upper back the time fall back breathe out in all Regal one more time read them and out inhale come back up slowly with awareness of the whole body the exhale exactly and relax forward so we'll take the hair posture so be careful because of osteoarthritis [Applause] inhale open the knees exhale let's put the hand between the legs inhale lengthen your spine and exhale slide forward gently and slowly all the way keeping the arms and parallel with each other bring the chin to the ground if you can and relax the whole body if the chin doesn't want to touch the ground break the forehead and relax breathe into your hips breathe in breathe out impressive breathe out see you then down one more gentle breath in and out good inhale come back up slowly with Awareness on the whole body breathe in this exhale close and we'll take the stretch of frog posture so inhale and take the knees to the side it's bothering your knees inhale take the arms up from the front stretch the spine smile and exhale Bend from the elbows only The Palms off the alternate shoulder blades right palm on the left shoulder blade left palm on the right shoulder blade see if you can keep the Chisel parallel to the Earth and we'll take your beauty glasses breathe out breathe into the chest [Applause] smile s inhale raise the arms up the exhale at the moment you've been waiting for let's slide down onto our knot on our stomach come all the way down make a pillow with the hands turn your head to the right side take your feet apart or so let them stay out to the side turn the head onto the pants [Applause] foreign [Applause] [Applause] I'll bring the hands underneath shoulder elbows close to the body exhale secure and inhale lift the head to chest upper chest into the navel and Breathe Here We breath breathe out relax the shoulders push them down and back breathe in and breathe out breathe in bad about one more breath in because you're higher and exhale slowly lower down again make the pillow with the hands and the head to the top of the left side legs apart [Music] Rusty in the Sun walk across [Applause] well gently let's turn onto our backs gently rolls imposter [Applause] posture so inhale bring the knees out exhale bring the knees to the chest towards the chest inhale press fingers together place them on The Shins wrap the arms around the legs exhale bring the forehead towards the knees until the chin or nose touches the knees breathe in and breathe out deep breath awareness of the whole body breathing breathe out one more breath breathe and exhale release the head down relax the legs slide them down onto the ground let the legs feel wanted to beat apart and the Arms by your sides because [Applause] relax the whole body [Applause] I'm aware the natural flow of the breath so let's take our attention to our toes [Applause] thank you [Applause] bye so right arm and hands hi [Applause] left arms [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] at the top the whole body the whole body [Applause] foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] [Music] sit with a spine top a more practice except breathing techniques so the spine tall let's bring our hands full dress and budra is a hand position with a direct the flow of Prana for energy in the body so index finger and thumb are lightly touchy and the backs of the hands resting on the back [Applause] out of the nose like this the inhalation happens on its own okay we'll take 20 repetitions so let's close the eyes through the nose and we'll take twenty thousands let's begin relax [Applause] before relaxing [Applause] notice the energy [Applause] and you'll feel ready to open your eyes good then we'll do a knotty's shoulder knife or alternate nostril breathing so let's bring the left hand into yeah thank you foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Music] I'll request everyone whoever is standing on the rain very shortly Among Us so I request everyone who are standing there near the Gandhi statue this is not the place for standing I request everyone to go and take your position take your position on a yoga mat please clear that area I request everyone that please take a position on a new government with everything [Music] foreign [Music] distinguished participants and Brothers now let's say my name is Denise Sato and I am the Mistress of Ceremonies for today's event here at the U land northlawn Building Disney World Yogi day 2023 already nine years can you believe it yoga day 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations my pleasure to extend a very important [Music] [Applause] yoga day 2023 here we are on behalf of the permanent mission of India to the United Nations it's my pleasure to extend a very warm welcome to each and every one of you joining in person but also to those who are watching or listening to the live webcast this is a very special yoga event I don't have to tell you that because most of you already know we're experiencing a historic moment in time today as we celebrate this ninth anniversary of world yoga day we're honored to be joined by The Honorable prime minister of India Modi [Applause] he'll be here with us very soon this year's theme for World yoga day is a Sanskrit verse which originates from the Indian scriptures and it Loosely translates to the concept that the whole world is one family Yoda's popularity has exploded to every corner of the globe and it only continues to grow we well know that yoga embodies Unity Unity of minds or Consciousness and body thought and action restraints and fulfillment Heavenly between Humanity or human family and all of nature a holistic approach to health well-being as well as experiencing a sense of Joy or balance and peace yoga is so awesome for just exercise although we are very familiar with the multitude of benefits that it can have on the most physical mental and even spiritual fault the fullest and richness of yoga is about to suffering a sense of Oneness Oneness between considered Consciousness and the external world but also Oneness with the world in nature a defense connection to the meaning of life in the words of one of the most famous yoga practitioners yoga cultivates the ways of maintaining a balanced attitude in day-to-day life I want to share with you a brief overview of today's events as The Honorable prime minister of India arrives will be here with us on this very stage together with Her Excellency the permanent representative of India to the UN Ambassador ruchira Campbells who is the president of the United Nations Federal assembly and Eric Adams who is the mayor of the city of New York these dignitaries will address the scattering briefly but after these remarks we'll begin as a group or yield a lesson [Music] yoga teaching so that we can have a yoga practice and experience that at the same time foreign [Music] whiskey color moon and soul both will have other youngsters joining us along on the North Lawn in this first row some of them are here already and these youngsters are Kahari careless graceful product Wyatt Santiago advice and giving support yes the yoga session will last for roughly 20 minutes and after that The Honorable prime minister of India is the arrival of the Prime Minister of India when he arrives at U.N headquarters here and I ask that each and every one of you take position and I expect that everybody will be ready on their yoga mat for the lesson I also request that everyone in our audience to please remain seated please remain peace please don't move around in case you need any assistance whatsoever we have volunteers positioned nearby and you will find them they're here to assist you these are our volunteers here to assist should you need to use the facilities while you're here you'll find them to your right next to the Promenade by the East River for you can stations set up for your company feel free to wear your yoga Day shirts and I see that almost everybody has the mom and you look beautiful today I wish you could see yourself but my eyes looks really very very funny it is gorgeous what a gorgeous group we have today here for World yoga day 2023. yay muhammadas [Music] and there will be support on the plaque and if you haven't seen it yet uh after this event completes you may want to take a look and the quote is which says there is no way is away was a special gift called India to the US and it's the very first sculpture of foundation here in New York on the North Garden last December back in 2022 when the minister of external affairs minister Khan was here but he was chairing for the security Council back in December of 2022. and the Secretary General of the UN Mr Antonio Gutierrez and the president of the 77th unga Mr chabalo Karoshi and of course ambassador joined the external affairs minister of the gandhiji statue well the Prime Minister gave us tribute so we're waiting now this morning this fresh morning for this moment for us to come together for us to come together in ourselves to come and unite within us to feel that in the resource that we have that connection of what we truly all with one another and that connection with the Earth with the Stillness that we all feel everything that Web of Life I would like before we start in the next few minutes to make appeal acknowledgments friends as The Honorable prime minister joins us statue I ask that we remain exceeded in our father as you can see The Honorable prime minister of India freeing a regular motiji has arrived and he is now being traveled by many people and he is now being followed by many people foreign [Music] foreign thank you for continuing to stay in your spot and be seated we will start the program very shortly and again if you need any assistance whatsoever we have our volunteers standing by to help they're wearing their yellow caps so that you may identify them easily you can see many sculptures that we have here on the North Lawn but today the gandhiji statue is one that is so dear to many of us here the principles that he holds and the concept of ahimsa is one that many of us are very familiar with that many world leaders are embodying and we see this as we look around to many people who aim to be the change that they want to see in the world [Applause] the 2023 today [Applause] [Applause] a distinguished world leader I'd like to remind everyone himself back in December 2014 who introduced the idea of establishing the world of yoga day to the UN General Assembly a record number of 175 member states recognized yoga's Universal appeal and adopted The Landmark resolution while claiming June 21 as International yoga day day of the summer solstice here in the north so everything's going to be one of June is World yoga day this day provides people people everywhere across the globe all of us and everyone watching is opportunity to reflect upon Aesthetics of the practicing yoga indeed an invaluable gift to [Applause] everyone I will now begin the official part of today's event by requesting Ambassador and chair of handles India's permanent representative to the United Nations to the stage to deliver her opening remarks thank you foreign [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] in solidarity it is [Applause] strong Beyond articulation [Applause] Uncle all of you that cherished 21st June this year and hold it close to your heart today and forever thank you [Applause] thank you Ambassador can vote for your Rewards it's my turn now to invite The Honorable president of the U.N generally assembly Mr Chavez for these days we will promise about it and also the environment and us the most memorable University lectures I attended useful where on cultural Traditions ancient Eastern civilizations they helped me understand that we are part of which despite regarding ourselves [Applause] I also learned in the universe and single a designer which is the Yoga challenges are physical but more importantly it can support in us different from intellectual performance we learn how to make a change [Applause] who has already reached a high level of practice nonsense [Applause] in other words not overusing resources that belong towards not prioritizing shorter planetary boundaries just as it needs recognition of moral responsibilities cherishing peace we are very rich I'm happy but let me apologize and the positions which you will show but still I'm here with an open house [Applause] [Applause] on such a very personal day at this time is the mayor of the city of New York please take these days [Applause] foreign [Applause] a far too long we have separated without emotionally I'm going to go to boys [Applause] [Applause] there's a larger challenge for all of us [Applause] we cannot become universally connected through the yellow Maps we lay on but just connected as we move through our communities it was the spirit and emotions of yoga Challenge and fight against War to fight against gender oppression to fight against violence to fight against the lack of clean water to fight against big old insecurity to fight against the destruction of our planet our connectivity is not only are we connected to our families and our parents we have two mothers one gave birth to us and one sin sustains us yoga keeps us connected to both mothers and connected to each other this International yoga days of international call for us to stand up for humankind across the globe and all living things are proud to be here and I'm proud to symbolically represent this city as stated International yoga day it's an international call that we will be a leader being in New who are illegal in your home environment thank you for allowing me to Rejoice with you today a few Mega rhymes with Spotlight in hell yoga was suitable to the National anatomy of most Spirits we appreciate that perspective [Applause] to go to the video message of the U.S Secretary General Antonio Gutierrez who is not available to be with us in person that is here in spirit please let us go to the videotape it means don't understand [Applause] [Applause] and patience it connects us to our planet which so badly means of production institutions of company management stopping us to understand that despite our differences we are going all this International Day of yoga let us embrace the speed of unity and resolved with the depth of our own use worlds of people planets and ourselves [Applause] friends it is [Applause] foreign minister of India very very Excellency [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] foreign [Music] [Applause] on this fine morning we are together here at the United Nations at the meeting point of entire Humanity it is I know many of you have come here from far away most of you have Before Sunrise I'm delighted to see you all and I thank you all for coming friends [Applause] and know that almost every nationality is represented here today and what are the amazing Gods to bring us all together yoga yoga means to unite together is an expression of another form of yoga I remember about nine years ago right here [Music] I am honored to propose celebrating the International Day of yoga on 21st June it was wonderful to see the entire world came together to support the idea Batman I've just paid respect the brave when his sleepers in 1950 new Memorial to be built at the UN in that memory and lastly [Music] India make this reality soon at the largest to continuity Nations we are grateful to All Nations for the respiration of support to this Noble gods last year the entire world came together to support India's proposal to celebrate 20 1953 at the international year of Village malays are a superfood s holistic health for environment too it is but like all ancient in Tradition it is also living and dynamic yoga is playing from copyright [Applause] free competence [Applause] [Music] very nice yoga is adaptable to your age gender and Princess lever yoga is forever you can do that at home foreign [Applause] for everyone for all accessibility [Applause] and all culture yoga is surely Universal when we do yoga feel physically fit mentally calm and emotionally content but it is not just about doing exercise on a man Noda is a way of life I've always seen approach to health and developing [Applause] mindfulness of academic Network USA 750 faculty members serving or retired karunga foreign foreign foreign foreign [Music] foreign first lady my National Science Foundation thank you [Applause] first lady Dr Jill Barton Dr panjanathan Mr marutra Dr Williams ladies and gentlemen my young friends foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign Advanced Technologies you are Factory America sustainable or inclusive Global growth hogi America Community College man then friends foreign Academia teachers or students teachers Exchange program foreign USA 750 faculty members foreign foreign foreign foreign [Music] foreign first lady my National Science Foundation thank you [Applause] ready Dr Williams ladies and gentlemen my dear young friends Young or Creative Minds National Science Foundation projects foreign education skill innovation foreign foreign foreign Advanced Technologies you are Factory America sustainable or inclusive Global growth hogi America Community College man that they say friends a majority is government industry Academia teachers or students teachers Exchange program foreign USA 750 faculty members serving or retired local winter break ing foreign foreign foreign [Music] foreign foreign first lady Dr Jill Byron capital my National Science Foundation thank you [Applause] lady Dr Jill burden Dr panjanathan Mr marutra Dr Williams ladies and gentlemen my young friends who is he Young or creative mindset National Science Foundation projects Isley Dr Biden up tomorrow is education skill innovation how many National Education ten thousand tinkering labs foreign foreign foreign foreign man that they say friends industry Academia teachers or students teachers Action Program engagement 2015 Global initiative of academic Network foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign first lady foreign thank you [Applause] first lady Dr Jill Baden Dr panjanathan Mr marutra Dr Williams ladies and gentlemen my young friends who Young or Creative Minds National Science Foundation foreign foreign ten thousand atal tinkering labs is Young friends foreign foreign friends six hour research the government industry Academia teachers or students eight India vs teachers Exchange program scientists or Enterprise Gideon Global initiative of academic Network USA 750 faculty members serving or retired karunga foreign foreign foreign foreign guy you are okay Northeast foreign first lady my National Science Foundation thank you [Applause] ready Dr Williams ladies and gentlemen my young friends foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign you are Factory America sustainable or inclusive Global growth hogi America Community College friends is government industry Academia teachers or students teachers Exchange program foreign scientists or Enterprise Global initiative of academic Network USA 750 faculty members foreign foreign foreign foreign [Music] foreign foreign first lady Dr Jill Byron capital my National Science Foundation thank you [Applause] lady Dr Jill burden Dr panjanathan Mr marutra Dr Williams ladies and gentlemen my dear young friends who is he Young or creative mindset National Science Foundation projects Isley Dr Biden up tomorrow is education skill innovation how many National Education ten thousand tinkering labs foreign foreign foreign foreign man that they say friends industry Academia teachers or students teachers Action Program engagement 2015 Global initiative of academic Network foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign first lady foreign [Applause] first lady Dr Jill Baden Dr panjanathan Mr marutra Dr Williams ladies and gentlemen my young friends who Young or Creative Minds foreign foreign ten thousand atal tinkering labs is Young foreign foreign foreign six hour research is the government industry Academia teachers or students teachers Exchange program scientists or Enterprise Gideon Global initiative of academic Network USA 750 faculty members

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 13 =====

Kind: captions
Language: en
chanting of all sit in the same
chanting of all sit in the same
chanting of all sit in the same
meditative posture take a deep breath
meditative posture take a deep breath
meditative posture take a deep breath
and chant all in such a way that while
and chant all in such a way that while
and chant all in such a way that while
chanting focus on your stomach while
chanting focus on your stomach while
chanting focus on your stomach while
chanting or focus on your chest and
chanting or focus on your chest and
chanting or focus on your chest and
while chanting focus on the top of your
while chanting focus on the top of your
while chanting focus on the top of your
head feel the vibrations at these three
head feel the vibrations at these three
head feel the vibrations at these three
different parts and then peacefully
different parts and then peacefully
different parts and then peacefully
enjoy the beautiful chanting of
rayko Gotti Rico Gotti means moving in a
rayko Gotti Rico Gotti means moving in a
rayko Gotti Rico Gotti means moving in a
single straight line ten straight on
single straight line ten straight on
single straight line ten straight on
your asana with your feet together arms
your asana with your feet together arms
your asana with your feet together arms
touching the sides of your trouser spine
touching the sides of your trouser spine
touching the sides of your trouser spine
neck and head in a straight line with
neck and head in a straight line with
neck and head in a straight line with
eyes honestly closed keep the legs
eyes honestly closed keep the legs
eyes honestly closed keep the legs
straight at knees move the right leg a
straight at knees move the right leg a
straight at knees move the right leg a
step forward resting the heel just ahead
step forward resting the heel just ahead
step forward resting the heel just ahead
of left toe balance on the right leg now
of left toe balance on the right leg now
of left toe balance on the right leg now
to move left leg a step forward and
to move left leg a step forward and
to move left leg a step forward and
resting the left heel ahead of the right
resting the left heel ahead of the right
resting the left heel ahead of the right
toe continue to move step by step up to
toe continue to move step by step up to
toe continue to move step by step up to
ten steps move the same way in Reverse
ten steps move the same way in Reverse
ten steps move the same way in Reverse
process also maintain the eyes closed
process also maintain the eyes closed
process also maintain the eyes closed
and breathing normal in the beginning
and breathing normal in the beginning
and breathing normal in the beginning
you may feel like losing balance but
you may feel like losing balance but
you may feel like losing balance but
have patience and move slowly
have patience and move slowly
have patience and move slowly
you may even stop for a moment but do
you may even stop for a moment but do
you may even stop for a moment but do
not open the ice
Anant madera asana intoxicating bliss
Anant madera asana intoxicating bliss
Anant madera asana intoxicating bliss
pose sit in the kneeling position
pose sit in the kneeling position
pose sit in the kneeling position
keeping the big toes together and he's
keeping the big toes together and he's
keeping the big toes together and he's
separate lowering the buttocks onto the
separate lowering the buttocks onto the
separate lowering the buttocks onto the
inside of heels hold your back straight
inside of heels hold your back straight
inside of heels hold your back straight
but tense free place the palm on ankle
but tense free place the palm on ankle
but tense free place the palm on ankle
thumbs pointing towards each other
thumbs pointing towards each other
thumbs pointing towards each other
lend your head backward and bring your
lend your head backward and bring your
lend your head backward and bring your
entire concentration on the space
entire concentration on the space
entire concentration on the space
between the eyebrows whatever thought
between the eyebrows whatever thought
between the eyebrows whatever thought
comes let it come and let it go hold
comes let it come and let it go hold
comes let it come and let it go hold
this position for some time and then
this position for some time and then
this position for some time and then
bring your head back relax your entire
bring your head back relax your entire
bring your head back relax your entire
body
other thee breath balancing pose sit in
other thee breath balancing pose sit in
other thee breath balancing pose sit in
the kneeling position keeping the big
the kneeling position keeping the big
the kneeling position keeping the big
toes together and he is separate
toes together and he is separate
toes together and he is separate
lowering the buttocks onto the inside of
lowering the buttocks onto the inside of
lowering the buttocks onto the inside of
heels cross the arms in front of the
heels cross the arms in front of the
heels cross the arms in front of the
chest place in the arms under the
chest place in the arms under the
chest place in the arms under the
opposite armpits with the thumbs
opposite armpits with the thumbs
opposite armpits with the thumbs
pointing upward the point between the
pointing upward the point between the
pointing upward the point between the
thumb and the first finger should be
thumb and the first finger should be
thumb and the first finger should be
firmly pressed bend your head a little
firmly pressed bend your head a little
firmly pressed bend your head a little
forward close your eyes become aware of
forward close your eyes become aware of
forward close your eyes become aware of
the breathing process and just
the breathing process and just
the breathing process and just
concentrate on the tip of your nose hold
concentrate on the tip of your nose hold
concentrate on the tip of your nose hold
this position for some time now spread
this position for some time now spread
this position for some time now spread
your legs and just relax
primarily pranayama humming be breath
primarily pranayama humming be breath
primarily pranayama humming be breath
sit in a comfortable meditation asana
sit in a comfortable meditation asana
sit in a comfortable meditation asana
the spinal cord should be erect the head
the spinal cord should be erect the head
the spinal cord should be erect the head
straight and the hands resting on the
straight and the hands resting on the
straight and the hands resting on the
knees in chin or jana mudra the ideal
knees in chin or jana mudra the ideal
knees in chin or jana mudra the ideal
posture for this practice is Padma asana
posture for this practice is Padma asana
posture for this practice is Padma asana
the lips should remain gently closed
the lips should remain gently closed
the lips should remain gently closed
with the teeth slightly separated
with the teeth slightly separated
with the teeth slightly separated
throughout the practice make sure the
throughout the practice make sure the
throughout the practice make sure the
jaws are relaxed raise the arm sideways
jaws are relaxed raise the arm sideways
jaws are relaxed raise the arm sideways
and bend the elbows bringing the hands
and bend the elbows bringing the hands
and bend the elbows bringing the hands
to the ears use the index or middle
to the ears use the index or middle
to the ears use the index or middle
finger to plug the ears exhale slowly
finger to plug the ears exhale slowly
finger to plug the ears exhale slowly
and in a controlled manner while making
and in a controlled manner while making
and in a controlled manner while making
a deep steady humming sound like that of
a deep steady humming sound like that of
a deep steady humming sound like that of
a Blackwing
the humming sound should be speedran and
the humming sound should be speedran and
the humming sound should be speedran and
continuous for the duration of the
continuous for the duration of the
continuous for the duration of the
exhalation this is one round at the end
exhalation this is one round at the end
exhalation this is one round at the end
of exhalation breathing deeply and
of exhalation breathing deeply and
of exhalation breathing deeply and
repeat the process perform five rounds

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 14 =====

Kind: captions
Language: en
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Applause]
I have great pleasure in welcoming the
I have great pleasure in welcoming the
I have great pleasure in welcoming the
prime minister of the Republic of India
prime minister of the Republic of India
prime minister of the Republic of India
his Excellency Narendra Modi and I
his Excellency Narendra Modi and I
his Excellency Narendra Modi and I
invite him to address the assembly Mr
invite him to address the assembly Mr
invite him to address the assembly Mr
Prime Minister it was a historic day
Prime Minister it was a historic day
Prime Minister it was a historic day
when prime minister Narendra Modi
when prime minister Narendra Modi
when prime minister Narendra Modi
addressed the United Nations General
addressed the United Nations General
addressed the United Nations General
Assembly the world decided to honor the
Assembly the world decided to honor the
Assembly the world decided to honor the
Glorious practice of yog by giving it
Glorious practice of yog by giving it
Glorious practice of yog by giving it
formal International
[Music]
recognition Karm
[Music]
y
[Music]
[Music]
y
SE
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
y
[Music]
y
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
yog is essentially a spiritual
yog is essentially a spiritual
yog is essentially a spiritual
discipline based on extremely subtle
discipline based on extremely subtle
discipline based on extremely subtle
science it is an art and science for
science it is an art and science for
science it is an art and science for
Healthy
Healthy
Healthy
Living the word yog is derived from the
Living the word yog is derived from the
Living the word yog is derived from the
Sanskrit word yug meaning to join or
Sanskrit word yug meaning to join or
Sanskrit word yug meaning to join or
Unite
Unite
Unite
[Music]
according to yogic
according to yogic
according to yogic
scriptures the practice of yog leads to
scriptures the practice of yog leads to
scriptures the practice of yog leads to
the union of the individual
the union of the individual
the union of the individual
Consciousness with that of the universal
Consciousness indicating a perfect
Consciousness indicating a perfect
Consciousness indicating a perfect
balance between mind and body man and
nature the science of yog has its or
nature the science of yog has its or
nature the science of yog has its or
Origins thousands of years ago before
Origins thousands of years ago before
Origins thousands of years ago before
the first religions or belief systems
the first religions or belief systems
the first religions or belief systems
were born in Yogi L shiv the first Yogi
were born in Yogi L shiv the first Yogi
were born in Yogi L shiv the first Yogi
or ADI Yogi transmitted his profound
or ADI Yogi transmitted his profound
or ADI Yogi transmitted his profound
knowledge to his seven disciples the
knowledge to his seven disciples the
knowledge to his seven disciples the
famous saptarishis or the seven sages
famous saptarishis or the seven sages
famous saptarishis or the seven sages
yog was practiced through the previc
yog was practiced through the previc
yog was practiced through the previc
period
but it was Maharishi patanjali known as
but it was Maharishi patanjali known as
but it was Maharishi patanjali known as
the father of modern yog Who
the father of modern yog Who
the father of modern yog Who
systematized and codified the then
systematized and codified the then
systematized and codified the then
practices through his yog sutras later
practices through his yog sutras later
practices through his yog sutras later
many yog Masters contributed to the
many yog Masters contributed to the
many yog Masters contributed to the
preservation and development of yog and
preservation and development of yog and
preservation and development of yog and
the spreading of this wonderful
the spreading of this wonderful
the spreading of this wonderful
practice there are different schools of
practice there are different schools of
practice there are different schools of
yog these include G
yog these include G
yog these include G
yog B yog Karma yog panala
yog B yog Karma yog panala
yog B yog Karma yog panala
yog yog Kundalini yogana yog Mantra yog
yog yog Kundalini yogana yog Mantra yog
yog yog Kundalini yogana yog Mantra yog
Lea yog J yog bodha yog
Lea yog J yog bodha yog
Lea yog J yog bodha yog
Etc each school has its own approach and
Etc each school has its own approach and
Etc each school has its own approach and
practices that lead to the ultimate aims
practices that lead to the ultimate aims
practices that lead to the ultimate aims
and objectives of yog
and objectives of yog
and objectives of yog
some of the widely practiced yoga
some of the widely practiced yoga
some of the widely practiced yoga
sadhanas are
Yama
Yama
Yama
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
aayara
aayara
aayara
DH
DH
DH
sadii B and
sadii B and
sadii B and
mudra
mudra
mudra
shatas
shatas
shatas
Yahara Mantra japa
Yahara Mantra japa
Yahara Mantra japa
yuk
yuk
yuk
Karma a yoga practitioner should follow
Karma a yoga practitioner should follow
Karma a yoga practitioner should follow
the guiding principles while performing
the guiding principles while performing
the guiding principles while performing
Yogi
Yogi
Yogi
practices before practice yogic practice
practices before practice yogic practice
practices before practice yogic practice
should be performed in a calm and quiet
should be performed in a calm and quiet
should be performed in a calm and quiet
atmosphere with a relaxed body and mind
atmosphere with a relaxed body and mind
atmosphere with a relaxed body and mind
it should be done on an empty stomach or
it should be done on an empty stomach or
it should be done on an empty stomach or
light stomach consume a small amount of
light stomach consume a small amount of
light stomach consume a small amount of
honey in lukewarm water if you feel weak
honey in lukewarm water if you feel weak
honey in lukewarm water if you feel weak
light and comfortable cotton clothes are
light and comfortable cotton clothes are
light and comfortable cotton clothes are
preferred to facilitate easy movement of
preferred to facilitate easy movement of
preferred to facilitate easy movement of
the
the
the
body in case of chronic diseases or pain
body in case of chronic diseases or pain
body in case of chronic diseases or pain
or cardiac problems a physician or a
or cardiac problems a physician or a
or cardiac problems a physician or a
yoga therapist should be consulted prior
yoga therapist should be consulted prior
yoga therapist should be consulted prior
to performing yogic
to performing yogic
to performing yogic
practices during practice practice
practices during practice practice
practices during practice practice
sessions should start with a prayer or
sessions should start with a prayer or
sessions should start with a prayer or
invocation as it creates a conducive
invocation as it creates a conducive
invocation as it creates a conducive
environment to relax the mind
environment to relax the mind
environment to relax the mind
yogic practices shall be performed
yogic practices shall be performed
yogic practices shall be performed
slowly in a relaxed manner with
slowly in a relaxed manner with
slowly in a relaxed manner with
awareness of the body and
awareness of the body and
awareness of the body and
breath do not hold the breath unless it
breath do not hold the breath unless it
breath do not hold the breath unless it
is specially mentioned to do
so do not hold the body tightly or jerk
so do not hold the body tightly or jerk
so do not hold the body tightly or jerk
the body perform the practices according
the body perform the practices according
the body perform the practices according
to your own capacity end the session
to your own capacity end the session
to your own capacity end the session
with deep silence or Shanti
with deep silence or Shanti
with deep silence or Shanti
part food or a bath may be taken only 20
part food or a bath may be taken only 20
part food or a bath may be taken only 20
to 30 minutes after
practice welcome to the world of
practice welcome to the world of
practice welcome to the world of
yog welcome to the world of wisdom that
yog welcome to the world of wisdom that
yog welcome to the world of wisdom that
is as relevant and beneficial today as
is as relevant and beneficial today as
is as relevant and beneficial today as
it was thousands of years ago
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
oh
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
oh oh
oh oh
oh oh
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
s
s
s
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
s
s
s
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
welcome to the world of
welcome to the world of
welcome to the world of
yoga let us start yog sadhana with
yoga let us start yog sadhana with
yoga let us start yog sadhana with
chalana crias or loosening practices to
chalana crias or loosening practices to
chalana crias or loosening practices to
increase micro
increase micro
increase micro
circulation neck exercises forward and
circulation neck exercises forward and
circulation neck exercises forward and
back backward neck
back backward neck
back backward neck
bending stand in an alert
bending stand in an alert
bending stand in an alert
posture keep feet comfortably apart and
posture keep feet comfortably apart and
posture keep feet comfortably apart and
your arms on the
your arms on the
your arms on the
waist
waist
waist
exhale and bend head forward slowly and
exhale and bend head forward slowly and
exhale and bend head forward slowly and
try to touch the chin to the chest
try to touch the chin to the chest
try to touch the chin to the chest
inhale move the head as far back as is
inhale move the head as far back as is
inhale move the head as far back as is
comfortable and come back with
comfortable and come back with
comfortable and come back with
inhalation
inhalation
inhalation
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
right and left neck
right and left neck
right and left neck
bending exhale bend the head slowly to
bending exhale bend the head slowly to
bending exhale bend the head slowly to
the right bring the ear as close as
the right bring the ear as close as
the right bring the ear as close as
possible to the shoulder inhale bring
possible to the shoulder inhale bring
possible to the shoulder inhale bring
the head to normal position exhale bend
the head to normal position exhale bend
the head to normal position exhale bend
the head to the left side inhale bring
the head to the left side inhale bring
the head to the left side inhale bring
the head up to normal
the head up to normal
the head up to normal
position right and left
position right and left
position right and left
twisting exhale gently ly turn the head
twisting exhale gently ly turn the head
twisting exhale gently ly turn the head
to the right side so that the chin is in
to the right side so that the chin is in
to the right side so that the chin is in
line with the
line with the
line with the
shoulder inhale bring the head to the
shoulder inhale bring the head to the
shoulder inhale bring the head to the
normal
normal
normal
position
position
position
exhale turn the head to the left
exhale turn the head to the left
exhale turn the head to the left
side inhale and bring the head to the
side inhale and bring the head to the
side inhale and bring the head to the
normal
position neck
position neck
position neck
rotation bend the head forward trying to
rotation bend the head forward trying to
rotation bend the head forward trying to
touch the chin to the chest inhale
touch the chin to the chest inhale
touch the chin to the chest inhale
slowly rotate the head clockwise
slowly rotate the head clockwise
slowly rotate the head clockwise
while coming down
while coming down
while coming down
exhale rotate the head in anticlockwise
exhale rotate the head in anticlockwise
exhale rotate the head in anticlockwise
Direction feel the stretch around the
Direction feel the stretch around the
Direction feel the stretch around the
neck and loosening up of the joints and
neck and loosening up of the joints and
neck and loosening up of the joints and
muscles of the neck and release of
muscles of the neck and release of
muscles of the neck and release of
tension in the neck people with neck
tension in the neck people with neck
tension in the neck people with neck
pain and spondilitis should do the
pain and spondilitis should do the
pain and spondilitis should do the
practice
practice
practice
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
gently trunk
gently trunk
gently trunk
twisting keep the legs about 2 ft apart
twisting keep the legs about 2 ft apart
twisting keep the legs about 2 ft apart
raise both the arms up to chest level
raise both the arms up to chest level
raise both the arms up to chest level
with the Palms facing each
with the Palms facing each
with the Palms facing each
other exhale twist the body towards the
other exhale twist the body towards the
other exhale twist the body towards the
right side so that the left palm touches
right side so that the left palm touches
right side so that the left palm touches
the right
the right
the right
shoulder come back with
shoulder come back with
shoulder come back with
inhalation now exhale twist the body
inhalation now exhale twist the body
inhalation now exhale twist the body
towards the left side so that the right
towards the left side so that the right
towards the left side so that the right
palm touches the left
palm touches the left
palm touches the left
shoulder come back with
shoulder come back with
shoulder come back with
inhalation repeat do slowly with
inhalation repeat do slowly with
inhalation repeat do slowly with
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
breathing avoid this practice in case of
breathing avoid this practice in case of
breathing avoid this practice in case of
vertebral and dis disorders and during
vertebral and dis disorders and during
vertebral and dis disorders and during
menstruation relax in standing
menstruation relax in standing
menstruation relax in standing
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
posture knee
posture knee
posture knee
movements inhale lift your arms up at
movements inhale lift your arms up at
movements inhale lift your arms up at
the shoulder
the shoulder
the shoulder
level exhale bend the knees and bring
level exhale bend the knees and bring
level exhale bend the knees and bring
down your body to the squatting position
down your body to the squatting position
down your body to the squatting position
inhale and straighten the
inhale and straighten the
inhale and straighten the
body repeat two more
body repeat two more
body repeat two more
times this practice strengthens the
times this practice strengthens the
times this practice strengthens the
knees and hip
knees and hip
knees and hip
joints avoid this in case suffering from
joints avoid this in case suffering from
joints avoid this in case suffering from
acute arthritis exhale while Bringing
acute arthritis exhale while Bringing
acute arthritis exhale while Bringing
Down the
hands now let let us move to
yogasana tasan Tar means palm
yogasana tasan Tar means palm
yogasana tasan Tar means palm
tree keep your feet 2 in apart interlock
tree keep your feet 2 in apart interlock
tree keep your feet 2 in apart interlock
the
the
the
fingers and turn the wrist
fingers and turn the wrist
fingers and turn the wrist
outwards inhale raise the arms up and
outwards inhale raise the arms up and
outwards inhale raise the arms up and
bring them in line with the shoulders
bring them in line with the shoulders
bring them in line with the shoulders
raise the heels off the floor and
raise the heels off the floor and
raise the heels off the floor and
balance on the
balance on the
balance on the
toes stay in this position for 10 to 15
toes stay in this position for 10 to 15
toes stay in this position for 10 to 15
seconds this Asen brings stability in
seconds this Asen brings stability in
seconds this Asen brings stability in
the body helps to clear up congestion of
the body helps to clear up congestion of
the body helps to clear up congestion of
the spinal nerves corrects faulty
the spinal nerves corrects faulty
the spinal nerves corrects faulty
posture exhale bring the heels Down
posture exhale bring the heels Down
posture exhale bring the heels Down
release the interlock of the fingers and
release the interlock of the fingers and
release the interlock of the fingers and
bring the arms down parallel to the
bring the arms down parallel to the
bring the arms down parallel to the
trunk and come back to a standing
posture
vasana Vick means
vasana Vick means
vasana Vick means
tree stand with the feet 2 in apart
tree stand with the feet 2 in apart
tree stand with the feet 2 in apart
focus on a point in front exhale bend
focus on a point in front exhale bend
focus on a point in front exhale bend
the right leg and place the foot on the
the right leg and place the foot on the
the right leg and place the foot on the
inside of the left thigh the heel should
inside of the left thigh the heel should
inside of the left thigh the heel should
be touching the
be touching the
be touching the
perenium inhale and extend the arms
perenium inhale and extend the arms
perenium inhale and extend the arms
up and join the Palms stay in this
up and join the Palms stay in this
up and join the Palms stay in this
position for 10 to 15 seconds and
position for 10 to 15 seconds and
position for 10 to 15 seconds and
breathe normally this improves
breathe normally this improves
breathe normally this improves
neuromuscular coordination endurance and
neuromuscular coordination endurance and
neuromuscular coordination endurance and
alertness avoid this practice in case of
alertness avoid this practice in case of
alertness avoid this practice in case of
arthritis and obesity exhale and bring
arthritis and obesity exhale and bring
arthritis and obesity exhale and bring
the arms and right foot
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
down and repeat the Asen bend the left
down and repeat the Asen bend the left
down and repeat the Asen bend the left
leg and place the foot on the right
leg and place the foot on the right
leg and place the foot on the right
thigh the heel should touch the
thigh the heel should touch the
thigh the heel should touch the
perenium inhale
perenium inhale
perenium inhale
extend the arms up and join the
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Palms
Palms
Palms
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
relax pad hastasana
relax pad hastasana
relax pad hastasana
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
p means foot hasta means
p means foot hasta means
p means foot hasta means
hand inhale slowly and raise the arms
up stretch up the body from the
up stretch up the body from the
up stretch up the body from the
waist exhale and Bend forward until the
waist exhale and Bend forward until the
waist exhale and Bend forward until the
entire Palm rests on the
entire Palm rests on the
entire Palm rests on the
ground maintain this final posture for
ground maintain this final posture for
ground maintain this final posture for
10 to 30 seconds those who have a stiff
10 to 30 seconds those who have a stiff
10 to 30 seconds those who have a stiff
back should bend according to their
back should bend according to their
back should bend according to their
capacity now inhale come up slowly to
capacity now inhale come up slowly to
capacity now inhale come up slowly to
the vertical position and stretch the
the vertical position and stretch the
the vertical position and stretch the
arms above the head exhale and slowly
arms above the head exhale and slowly
arms above the head exhale and slowly
return to the starting position in
return to the starting position in
return to the starting position in
reverse
reverse
reverse
order
relax AR
relax AR
relax AR
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
chakran support the back at the waist
chakran support the back at the waist
chakran support the back at the waist
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
exhale drop the head backwards stretch
exhale drop the head backwards stretch
exhale drop the head backwards stretch
the neck muscles and bend backwards from
the neck muscles and bend backwards from
the neck muscles and bend backwards from
the lumber
the lumber
the lumber
region relax with normal breathing stay
region relax with normal breathing stay
region relax with normal breathing stay
there for 10 to 30
there for 10 to 30
there for 10 to 30
seconds ARA chakra makes the spine
seconds ARA chakra makes the spine
seconds ARA chakra makes the spine
flexible and strengthens the spinal
flexible and strengthens the spinal
flexible and strengthens the spinal
nerves and improves breathing
nerves and improves breathing
nerves and improves breathing
capacity inhale and slowly come up and
capacity inhale and slowly come up and
capacity inhale and slowly come up and
relax
relax
relax
relax hypertensive patients shall Bend
relax hypertensive patients shall Bend
relax hypertensive patients shall Bend
with
with
with
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
care
tronas trone means
tronas trone means
tronas trone means
triangle stand with your feet
triangle stand with your feet
triangle stand with your feet
comfortably apart slowly raise both the
comfortably apart slowly raise both the
comfortably apart slowly raise both the
arms sideways till they are
horizontal
horizontal
horizontal
exhale slowly Bend to the right side and
exhale slowly Bend to the right side and
exhale slowly Bend to the right side and
place the right hand just behind the
place the right hand just behind the
place the right hand just behind the
right foot the left arm is straight up
right foot the left arm is straight up
right foot the left arm is straight up
in line with the right arm remain in
in line with the right arm remain in
in line with the right arm remain in
this posture for 10 to 30 seconds with
this posture for 10 to 30 seconds with
this posture for 10 to 30 seconds with
normal
normal
normal
breathing this prevents flat foot
breathing this prevents flat foot
breathing this prevents flat foot
strengthens the calf thigh and waist
strengthens the calf thigh and waist
strengthens the calf thigh and waist
muscles makes the spine
muscles makes the spine
muscles makes the spine
flexible as you inhale slowly come
flexible as you inhale slowly come
flexible as you inhale slowly come
up repeat for the left
up repeat for the left
up repeat for the left
side avoid this posture in case of
side avoid this posture in case of
side avoid this posture in case of
slipped dis
slipped dis
slipped dis
sha and after undergoing abdominal
sha and after undergoing abdominal
sha and after undergoing abdominal
surgery do not go beyond your
surgery do not go beyond your
surgery do not go beyond your
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
limits
limits
limits
padas let us now get ready for sitting
padas let us now get ready for sitting
padas let us now get ready for sitting
postures bhadran bhadra means firm sit
postures bhadran bhadra means firm sit
postures bhadran bhadra means firm sit
erect with the legs stretched out
erect with the legs stretched out
erect with the legs stretched out
straight in front keep the hands beside
straight in front keep the hands beside
straight in front keep the hands beside
the hips this is
the hips this is
the hips this is
dandasan now put the soles of your feet
dandasan now put the soles of your feet
dandasan now put the soles of your feet
together exhale and clasp your hands
together exhale and clasp your hands
together exhale and clasp your hands
together over your
together over your
together over your
toes pull your heels as close as
toes pull your heels as close as
toes pull your heels as close as
possible up to the perenium
possible up to the perenium
possible up to the perenium
region this is the final position stay
region this is the final position stay
region this is the final position stay
here for some time
here for some time
here for some time
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
badran keeps the body firm and
badran keeps the body firm and
badran keeps the body firm and
stabilizes the
mind now stretch your leg and come to
mind now stretch your leg and come to
mind now stretch your leg and come to
Vasan avoid this practice in case of
Vasan avoid this practice in case of
Vasan avoid this practice in case of
severe arthritis and chatica
severe arthritis and chatica
severe arthritis and chatica
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
arasan usra means
arasan usra means
arasan usra means
camel come to dandas
fold your legs and sit on your
heels keep the thighs close and the big
heels keep the thighs close and the big
heels keep the thighs close and the big
toes touching place the hands on the
knees this is vajras now let us start
knees this is vajras now let us start
knees this is vajras now let us start
arasan
arasan
arasan
inhale and rise and stand on your
inhale and rise and stand on your
inhale and rise and stand on your
knees exhale keep your palms on the hips
knees exhale keep your palms on the hips
knees exhale keep your palms on the hips
with fingers pointing
with fingers pointing
with fingers pointing
downwards keep the elbow and shoulder
downwards keep the elbow and shoulder
downwards keep the elbow and shoulder
parallel bend the head back and stretch
parallel bend the head back and stretch
parallel bend the head back and stretch
the neck muscles inhale and bend the
the neck muscles inhale and bend the
the neck muscles inhale and bend the
trunk backwards as much as is
comfortable exhale and relax this is the
comfortable exhale and relax this is the
comfortable exhale and relax this is the
final position
now inhale and come
now inhale and come
now inhale and come
up exhale put your hands down and sit in
up exhale put your hands down and sit in
up exhale put your hands down and sit in
vajras avoid this Asen during abdominal
vajras avoid this Asen during abdominal
vajras avoid this Asen during abdominal
injuries vertigo and
injuries vertigo and
injuries vertigo and
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
pregnancy Shashank
pregnancy Shashank
pregnancy Shashank
aam Shashank means hair spread both the
aam Shashank means hair spread both the
aam Shashank means hair spread both the
knees wide
knees wide
knees wide
apart keep the toes touching
apart keep the toes touching
apart keep the toes touching
keep the Palms between the
keep the Palms between the
keep the Palms between the
knees exhale and slowly stretch them
knees exhale and slowly stretch them
knees exhale and slowly stretch them
full length Bend forward and place the
full length Bend forward and place the
full length Bend forward and place the
chin on the ground keep the arms
chin on the ground keep the arms
chin on the ground keep the arms
parallel look in front and maintain the
parallel look in front and maintain the
parallel look in front and maintain the
posture this helps to reduce stress and
posture this helps to reduce stress and
posture this helps to reduce stress and
anger inhale and come
anger inhale and come
anger inhale and come
up exhale and come back to
up exhale and come back to
up exhale and come back to
vajras stretch your legs back to
vajras stretch your legs back to
vajras stretch your legs back to
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Vasan patients with osteoarthritis
Vasan patients with osteoarthritis
Vasan patients with osteoarthritis
should do this with
should do this with
should do this with
[Music]
caution
caution
caution
Vasan vakra means
Vasan vakra means
Vasan vakra means
Twisted bend the right leg and place the
Twisted bend the right leg and place the
Twisted bend the right leg and place the
right foot beside the left knee bring
right foot beside the left knee bring
right foot beside the left knee bring
the left arm around the right knee and
the left arm around the right knee and
the left arm around the right knee and
place the Palm beside the right foot
place the Palm beside the right foot
place the Palm beside the right foot
exhale twist the body and neck to the
exhale twist the body and neck to the
exhale twist the body and neck to the
[Music]
right comfortably remain in this
right comfortably remain in this
right comfortably remain in this
posture turn your head back take out
posture turn your head back take out
posture turn your head back take out
your hands with
your hands with
your hands with
exhalation stretch your
exhalation stretch your
exhalation stretch your
legs now come back and relax in visham
legs now come back and relax in visham
legs now come back and relax in visham
as this Asen increases flexibility of
as this Asen increases flexibility of
as this Asen increases flexibility of
the spine it helps to overcome
the spine it helps to overcome
the spine it helps to overcome
constipation dyspepsia and in the
constipation dyspepsia and in the
constipation dyspepsia and in the
management of
management of
management of
diabetes repeat the same on the other
diabetes repeat the same on the other
diabetes repeat the same on the other
side
side
side
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
turn your head back take out your hands
turn your head back take out your hands
turn your head back take out your hands
with
with
with
exhalation stretch your
exhalation stretch your
exhalation stretch your
legs now come
legs now come
legs now come
back and relax in Vish
back and relax in Vish
back and relax in Vish
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Asana
Asana
Asana
pangana now let us be ready for prone
pangana now let us be ready for prone
pangana now let us be ready for prone
postures puang puang means snake or
postures puang puang means snake or
postures puang puang means snake or
cobra
lie down on your stomach rest your head
lie down on your stomach rest your head
lie down on your stomach rest your head
on your hands and relax the
on your hands and relax the
on your hands and relax the
body now join your
body now join your
body now join your
legs and stretch your
legs and stretch your
legs and stretch your
arms keep the forehead on the
arms keep the forehead on the
arms keep the forehead on the
ground keep your palms beside the
ground keep your palms beside the
ground keep your palms beside the
chest and raise the elbows inhale lift
chest and raise the elbows inhale lift
chest and raise the elbows inhale lift
the chin and chest up to the naval
the chin and chest up to the naval
the chin and chest up to the naval
region
region
region
this is puang
this is puang
this is puang
assen this Asen is best for Stress
assen this Asen is best for Stress
assen this Asen is best for Stress
Management it also helps to manage
Management it also helps to manage
Management it also helps to manage
backache and bronchial
backache and bronchial
backache and bronchial
problems
problems
problems
exhale rest your forehead on the
exhale rest your forehead on the
exhale rest your forehead on the
ground and stretch your
ground and stretch your
ground and stretch your
arms spread your
arms spread your
arms spread your
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
legs place your palms and rest your head
legs place your palms and rest your head
legs place your palms and rest your head
on the palms and relax
on the palms and relax
on the palms and relax
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
shasan Shala means a locust lie down on
shasan Shala means a locust lie down on
shasan Shala means a locust lie down on
your stomach now join your
your stomach now join your
your stomach now join your
legs rest the chin on the floor keep
legs rest the chin on the floor keep
legs rest the chin on the floor keep
both hands beside the body Palms facing
both hands beside the body Palms facing
both hands beside the body Palms facing
upwards inhale raise the legs off the
upwards inhale raise the legs off the
upwards inhale raise the legs off the
floor as much as you can without bending
floor as much as you can without bending
floor as much as you can without bending
the
the
the
knees extend the arms and legs well to
knees extend the arms and legs well to
knees extend the arms and legs well to
ease the lift of the body off the floor
ease the lift of the body off the floor
ease the lift of the body off the floor
stay in this position
stay in this position
stay in this position
comfortably this Asen helps in
comfortably this Asen helps in
comfortably this Asen helps in
sha and lower back eg it tones the hip
sha and lower back eg it tones the hip
sha and lower back eg it tones the hip
muscles now exhale bring the legs down
muscles now exhale bring the legs down
muscles now exhale bring the legs down
towards the
towards the
towards the
floor take out your
floor take out your
floor take out your
arms and rest on the floor cardiac
arms and rest on the floor cardiac
arms and rest on the floor cardiac
patients should avoid this posture
patients should avoid this posture
patients should avoid this posture
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
makarasana Maka means
makarasana Maka means
makarasana Maka means
crocodile lie down on your stomach with
crocodile lie down on your stomach with
crocodile lie down on your stomach with
the feet wide apart feet pointing
the feet wide apart feet pointing
the feet wide apart feet pointing
outward rest your head on your hands
outward rest your head on your hands
outward rest your head on your hands
relax this is
relax this is
relax this is
makarasana this ASA is practiced for
makarasana this ASA is practiced for
makarasana this ASA is practiced for
relaxation in all prone
relaxation in all prone
relaxation in all prone
postures it promotes relaxation of the
postures it promotes relaxation of the
postures it promotes relaxation of the
lower back
suub
suub
suub
basan Now we move to supine postures
basan Now we move to supine postures
basan Now we move to supine postures
suub bandas suub band means formation of
suub bandas suub band means formation of
suub bandas suub band means formation of
a
a
a
bridge join your legs keep the arms
bridge join your legs keep the arms
bridge join your legs keep the arms
beside the body Bend both the legs at
beside the body Bend both the legs at
beside the body Bend both the legs at
the knees and bring the heels near the
the knees and bring the heels near the
the knees and bring the heels near the
buttocks hold both the ankles
firmly inhale
firmly inhale
firmly inhale
slowly raise your buttocks and trunk up
slowly raise your buttocks and trunk up
slowly raise your buttocks and trunk up
as much as you can to form a
as much as you can to form a
as much as you can to form a
bridge remain
bridge remain
bridge remain
comfortably this is the final
comfortably this is the final
comfortably this is the final
position this ARA relieves depression
position this ARA relieves depression
position this ARA relieves depression
and
and
and
anxiety it strengthens the lower back
anxiety it strengthens the lower back
anxiety it strengthens the lower back
muscles now
muscles now
muscles now
exhale slowly return to the original
exhale slowly return to the original
exhale slowly return to the original
position and relax
position and relax
position and relax
lie down on your
lie down on your
lie down on your
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
back please
back please
back please
note women in advanced stages of
note women in advanced stages of
note women in advanced stages of
pregnancy to not practice this
pregnancy to not practice this
pregnancy to not practice this
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Asen Pavan
Asen Pavan
Asen Pavan
mtasa Bend both the knees and bring the
mtasa Bend both the knees and bring the
mtasa Bend both the knees and bring the
thighs to the chest interlock the
thighs to the chest interlock the
thighs to the chest interlock the
fingers and clasp the shin below the
fingers and clasp the shin below the
fingers and clasp the shin below the
knee raise the head and shoulders try to
knee raise the head and shoulders try to
knee raise the head and shoulders try to
touch the knees with the chin
touch the knees with the chin
touch the knees with the chin
chin this is Pavan
massan this removes
massan this removes
massan this removes
constipation gives relief from
constipation gives relief from
constipation gives relief from
flatulence and tones up the back muscles
flatulence and tones up the back muscles
flatulence and tones up the back muscles
and spinal
and spinal
and spinal
nerves bring your head
nerves bring your head
nerves bring your head
back
exhale stretch your
legs and relax
legs and relax
legs and relax
avoid this practice in case of abdominal
avoid this practice in case of abdominal
avoid this practice in case of abdominal
injuries hernia chatica and during
pregnancy
pregnancy
pregnancy
shavasan shave means the dead
shavasan shave means the dead
shavasan shave means the dead
body this Asen is meant for complete
body this Asen is meant for complete
body this Asen is meant for complete
relaxation lie down on your back with
relaxation lie down on your back with
relaxation lie down on your back with
the arms and legs comfortably
the arms and legs comfortably
the arms and legs comfortably
apart Palm facing
apart Palm facing
apart Palm facing
upward eyes
upward eyes
upward eyes
closed relax the whole body
consciously become aware of natural
consciously become aware of natural
consciously become aware of natural
breath and allow it to become rhythmic
breath and allow it to become rhythmic
breath and allow it to become rhythmic
and
and
and
slow remain in this position till you
slow remain in this position till you
slow remain in this position till you
feel refreshed and
feel refreshed and
feel refreshed and
relaxed this Asen helps relieve all
relaxed this Asen helps relieve all
relaxed this Asen helps relieve all
kinds of
kinds of
kinds of
tensions and gives add to both the body
tensions and gives add to both the body
tensions and gives add to both the body
and the
and the
and the
mind it is very beneficial in the
mind it is very beneficial in the
mind it is very beneficial in the
management of stress and its
management of stress and its
management of stress and its
consequences
[Music]
kapti it and stimulates respiratory
kapti it and stimulates respiratory
kapti it and stimulates respiratory
centers in the frontal
centers in the frontal
centers in the frontal
brain sit in any meditative posture
brain sit in any meditative posture
brain sit in any meditative posture
close the eyes and relax the whole
close the eyes and relax the whole
close the eyes and relax the whole
body inhale deeply expand the chest
body inhale deeply expand the chest
body inhale deeply expand the chest
expel the breath with forceful
expel the breath with forceful
expel the breath with forceful
contractions of the abdominal muscles
contractions of the abdominal muscles
contractions of the abdominal muscles
continue active exhalation and passive
continue active exhalation and passive
continue active exhalation and passive
inhalation
[Music]
[Music]
then take a deep
then take a deep
then take a deep
breath exhale
breath exhale
breath exhale
slowly and
slowly and
slowly and
relax this is one round of
relax this is one round of
relax this is one round of
kapalabhati each round should be
kapalabhati each round should be
kapalabhati each round should be
followed by deep
followed by deep
followed by deep
breathing now do two more rounds
[Music]
[Music]
kapalabhati purifies the frontal air
kapalabhati purifies the frontal air
kapalabhati purifies the frontal air
sinuses helps to overcome cough
sinuses helps to overcome cough
sinuses helps to overcome cough
disorders it is useful in treating colds
disorders it is useful in treating colds
disorders it is useful in treating colds
rhinitis sinusitis asthma and bronchial
rhinitis sinusitis asthma and bronchial
rhinitis sinusitis asthma and bronchial
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
infections please avoid this practice in
infections please avoid this practice in
infections please avoid this practice in
case of cardiac conditions high blood
case of cardiac conditions high blood
case of cardiac conditions high blood
pressure vertigo migraine stroke hernia
pressure vertigo migraine stroke hernia
pressure vertigo migraine stroke hernia
and gastric
ulcers
ulcers
ulcers
pranay nard or anulom vom
pranay nard or anulom vom
pranay nard or anulom vom
pranayam is alternate breathing through
pranayam is alternate breathing through
pranayam is alternate breathing through
the the left and right
the the left and right
the the left and right
nostrils sit in a meditative
nostrils sit in a meditative
nostrils sit in a meditative
posture keep the spine straight and the
posture keep the spine straight and the
posture keep the spine straight and the
head erect with eyes closed relax the
head erect with eyes closed relax the
head erect with eyes closed relax the
body with a few deep
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
breaths keep the left palm on the left
breaths keep the left palm on the left
breaths keep the left palm on the left
knee in Gan
knee in Gan
knee in Gan
mudra the right hand should be in the
mudra the right hand should be in the
mudra the right hand should be in the
nasik kagra mudra
nasik kagra mudra
nasik kagra mudra
place the right thumb on the right
place the right thumb on the right
place the right thumb on the right
nostril breathe in from the left
nostril breathe in from the left
nostril breathe in from the left
nostril close the left
nostril exhale through the right
nostril exhale through the right
nostril exhale through the right
nostril next inhale through the right
nostril close the right
nostril close the right
nostril close the right
nostril and exhale through it left
nostril and exhale through it left
nostril and exhale through it left
nostril
nostril
nostril
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
this is one round of nard Shana or
this is one round of nard Shana or
this is one round of nard Shana or
anulom vom pranayam repeat for another
anulom vom pranayam repeat for another
anulom vom pranayam repeat for another
five
five
five
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
rounds for beginners the duration of
rounds for beginners the duration of
rounds for beginners the duration of
inhalation and exhalation should be
inhalation and exhalation should be
inhalation and exhalation should be
equal gradually make it 1 is to two
equal gradually make it 1 is to two
equal gradually make it 1 is to two
inhalation
inhalation
inhalation
exhalation the breath should be slow
exhalation the breath should be slow
exhalation the breath should be slow
steady and controlled the main purpose
steady and controlled the main purpose
steady and controlled the main purpose
of this pranayama is to purify the
of this pranayama is to purify the
of this pranayama is to purify the
principal channels of
principal channels of
principal channels of
energy this nourishes the whole body it
energy this nourishes the whole body it
energy this nourishes the whole body it
induces
induces
induces
Tranquility helps to improve
Tranquility helps to improve
Tranquility helps to improve
concentration it increases
concentration it increases
concentration it increases
vitality and lowers the level of Stress
vitality and lowers the level of Stress
vitality and lowers the level of Stress
and
and
and
Anxiety it also elevates cough
Anxiety it also elevates cough
Anxiety it also elevates cough
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
disorders bramar
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
pranayam Brar means a black bee during
pranayam Brar means a black bee during
pranayam Brar means a black bee during
the exhalation of this pranayam the
the exhalation of this pranayam the
the exhalation of this pranayam the
sound produced resembles the buzzing of
sound produced resembles the buzzing of
sound produced resembles the buzzing of
a black
a black
a black
bee inhale deeply through both
bee inhale deeply through both
bee inhale deeply through both
nostrils exhale
nostrils exhale
nostrils exhale
slowly in a controlled manner making a
slowly in a controlled manner making a
slowly in a controlled manner making a
deep steady humming sound is that of a
deep steady humming sound is that of a
deep steady humming sound is that of a
black
black
black
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
bee this is one round of bramar repeat
bee this is one round of bramar repeat
bee this is one round of bramar repeat
two more
two more
two more
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
times this is a great
times this is a great
times this is a great
tranquilizer it's found good in the
tranquilizer it's found good in the
tranquilizer it's found good in the
management of stress related disorder
management of stress related disorder
management of stress related disorder
this
this
this
[Music]
one now do the bramar with shanmuki
one now do the bramar with shanmuki
one now do the bramar with shanmuki
mudra close your ears with your thumbs
mudra close your ears with your thumbs
mudra close your ears with your thumbs
place the four fingers on your eyes
place the four fingers on your eyes
place the four fingers on your eyes
middle fingers on the nostrils ring
middle fingers on the nostrils ring
middle fingers on the nostrils ring
finger and small small fingers on the
finger and small small fingers on the
finger and small small fingers on the
lips open your nose and inhale through
lips open your nose and inhale through
lips open your nose and inhale through
both
both
both
nostrils exhale slowly in a controlled
nostrils exhale slowly in a controlled
nostrils exhale slowly in a controlled
manner making the Deep humming sound of
manner making the Deep humming sound of
manner making the Deep humming sound of
a black
a black
a black
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
bee it is a useful reparatory pranayam
bee it is a useful reparatory pranayam
bee it is a useful reparatory pranayam
for concentration ation and
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
meditation now let us prepare for
meditation now let us prepare for
meditation now let us prepare for
danan danan or meditation is an act of
danan danan or meditation is an act of
danan danan or meditation is an act of
continuous
continuous
continuous
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
contemplation sit in any meditative
contemplation sit in any meditative
contemplation sit in any meditative
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
posture keep your spine comfortably
posture keep your spine comfortably
posture keep your spine comfortably
erect hold ganam mudra keep your palms
erect hold ganam mudra keep your palms
erect hold ganam mudra keep your palms
facing upwards upon the
facing upwards upon the
facing upwards upon the
thighs arms and shoulders should be
thighs arms and shoulders should be
thighs arms and shoulders should be
loose and
loose and
loose and
relaxed close your eyes and sit with a
relaxed close your eyes and sit with a
relaxed close your eyes and sit with a
slightly upturned
slightly upturned
slightly upturned
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
face you need not
face you need not
face you need not
concentrate just m
concentrate just m
concentrate just m
a mild Focus between the eyebrows and be
a mild Focus between the eyebrows and be
a mild Focus between the eyebrows and be
conscious of your
conscious of your
conscious of your
breath danan keeps the Mind calm and
breath danan keeps the Mind calm and
breath danan keeps the Mind calm and
quiet it increases concentration memory
quiet it increases concentration memory
quiet it increases concentration memory
Clarity of thought and
Clarity of thought and
Clarity of thought and
willpower it rejuvenates the whole body
willpower it rejuvenates the whole body
willpower it rejuvenates the whole body
and mind giving them proper
and mind giving them proper
and mind giving them proper
rest it helps to develop positive
rest it helps to develop positive
rest it helps to develop positive
emotions meditation
emotions meditation
emotions meditation
leads to selfrealization
continue to be in this state of d
continue to be in this state of d
continue to be in this state of d
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
oh
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
oh
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
oh
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
oh
oh
oh
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
oh
oh
oh
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
let us now take
let us now take
let us now take
some I commit to make myself into a
some I commit to make myself into a
some I commit to make myself into a
health y peaceful joyful and loving
health y peaceful joyful and loving
health y peaceful joyful and loving
human
human
human
being through every action of M I will
being through every action of M I will
being through every action of M I will
strive to create a peaceful and loving
strive to create a peaceful and loving
strive to create a peaceful and loving
atmosphere around me I strive to break
atmosphere around me I strive to break
atmosphere around me I strive to break
the limitations of who I am right now
the limitations of who I am right now
the limitations of who I am right now
and include the entire world as my
and include the entire world as my
and include the entire world as my
own I recognize the kinship of my own
own I recognize the kinship of my own
own I recognize the kinship of my own
life with every other life I recognize
life with every other life I recognize
life with every other life I recognize
the unity of all there
the unity of all there
the unity of all there
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
is end the yoga practice session with
is end the yoga practice session with
is end the yoga practice session with
Shanti part or Universal prayer
[Music]
NAD
NAD
NAD
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
om
om
om
Shanty
Shanty shanty
[Music]
e e

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 15 =====

Kind: captions
Language: en
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
yoga for peace
yoga for peace
yoga for peace
nadi
the word nadi sudhi literally means
the word nadi sudhi literally means
the word nadi sudhi literally means
cleansing the nadis
cleansing the nadis
cleansing the nadis
when we say nadis we are not talking
when we say nadis we are not talking
when we say nadis we are not talking
about the 72
about the 72
about the 72
000 because these 72 000 are only a
000 because these 72 000 are only a
000 because these 72 000 are only a
branch out
branch out
branch out
of the two basic nadis the pingala and
of the two basic nadis the pingala and
of the two basic nadis the pingala and
the eda
the eda
the eda
36 000 branching out from pingala
36 000 branching out from pingala
36 000 branching out from pingala
36 000 branching out from eda this is
36 000 branching out from eda this is
36 000 branching out from eda this is
the
the
the
energy physiology of a human being
energy physiology of a human being
energy physiology of a human being
when we say nadi shuddhi we are talking
when we say nadi shuddhi we are talking
when we say nadi shuddhi we are talking
about
about
about
cleansing fundamentally the pingala and
cleansing fundamentally the pingala and
cleansing fundamentally the pingala and
eda
eda
eda
so that energy system will work in
so that energy system will work in
so that energy system will work in
balance
balance
balance
there is a connection between your
there is a connection between your
there is a connection between your
breath
breath
breath
and your mental structure to bring
and your mental structure to bring
and your mental structure to bring
balance to your thought is a
balance to your thought is a
balance to your thought is a
very important step that you need to
very important step that you need to
very important step that you need to
take
take
take
if you want to bring balance to your
if you want to bring balance to your
if you want to bring balance to your
activity your emotion
activity your emotion
activity your emotion
and the results of your life and the
and the results of your life and the
and the results of your life and the
impact that you have in other people's
impact that you have in other people's
impact that you have in other people's
lives
lives
lives
naughty should be plays an important
naughty should be plays an important
naughty should be plays an important
role
here are a few guidelines that will set
here are a few guidelines that will set
here are a few guidelines that will set
optimal conditions
optimal conditions
optimal conditions
and greatly enhance your receptivity of
and greatly enhance your receptivity of
and greatly enhance your receptivity of
the practices
the practices
the practices
please ensure cell phones are either in
please ensure cell phones are either in
please ensure cell phones are either in
silent mode
silent mode
silent mode
or switched off it is advisable not to
or switched off it is advisable not to
or switched off it is advisable not to
sit for the program
sit for the program
sit for the program
with a full stomach or immediately after
with a full stomach or immediately after
with a full stomach or immediately after
a meal
a meal
a meal
please sit with your spine comfortably
please sit with your spine comfortably
please sit with your spine comfortably
erect
erect
erect
hands uncrossed and palms open
hands uncrossed and palms open
hands uncrossed and palms open
these conditions will prepare you to be
these conditions will prepare you to be
these conditions will prepare you to be
in a heightened state of receptivity
in a heightened state of receptivity
in a heightened state of receptivity
and derive the most benefits on the
and derive the most benefits on the
and derive the most benefits on the
practices
practices
practices
these practices are very safe and simple
these practices are very safe and simple
these practices are very safe and simple
and can be done by anybody
and can be done by anybody
and can be done by anybody
the practices we will be learning here
the practices we will be learning here
the practices we will be learning here
can be done by
can be done by
can be done by
anyone ages 7 years and above
if you wear glasses while doing the yoga
if you wear glasses while doing the yoga
if you wear glasses while doing the yoga
practices
practices
practices
please remove them and keep them aside
please remove them and keep them aside
please remove them and keep them aside
how to do nadi shuddhi she will
how to do nadi shuddhi she will
how to do nadi shuddhi she will
demonstrate
demonstrate
demonstrate
please observe sit in a cross-legged
please observe sit in a cross-legged
please observe sit in a cross-legged
posture
posture
posture
with your spine comfortably erect eyes
with your spine comfortably erect eyes
with your spine comfortably erect eyes
closed
closed
closed
left hand should be loosely placed in
left hand should be loosely placed in
left hand should be loosely placed in
the middle of your lap
the middle of your lap
the middle of your lap
palm facing upwards use only your right
palm facing upwards use only your right
palm facing upwards use only your right
hand
hand
hand
use your thumb and ring finger fold your
use your thumb and ring finger fold your
use your thumb and ring finger fold your
middle
middle
middle
and index fingers the ring and little
and index fingers the ring and little
and index fingers the ring and little
finger are held straight
finger are held straight
finger are held straight
and side by side touching now block your
and side by side touching now block your
and side by side touching now block your
right nostril with your thumb
right nostril with your thumb
right nostril with your thumb
and inhale through your left nostril
and inhale through your left nostril
and inhale through your left nostril
after the inhalation is complete exhale
after the inhalation is complete exhale
after the inhalation is complete exhale
through the seam
through the seam
through the seam
in a similar fashion using the ring
in a similar fashion using the ring
in a similar fashion using the ring
finger
finger
finger
block your left nostril and inhale
block your left nostril and inhale
block your left nostril and inhale
through the right nostril
then exhale through the same
again block the right and open the left
again block the right and open the left
again block the right and open the left
inhale and exhale
inhale and exhale
inhale and exhale
continue like this be focused on your
continue like this be focused on your
continue like this be focused on your
breath
breath
breath
so when you do this nadi shuddhi what is
so when you do this nadi shuddhi what is
so when you do this nadi shuddhi what is
most important is
most important is
most important is
to breathe fully in and fully out
to breathe fully in and fully out
to breathe fully in and fully out
as slowly and as gently as it is
as slowly and as gently as it is
as slowly and as gently as it is
possible for you
possible for you
possible for you
you should not make any sound when you
you should not make any sound when you
you should not make any sound when you
exhale or inhale
exhale or inhale
exhale or inhale
so for this to happen you just need to
so for this to happen you just need to
so for this to happen you just need to
remember
remember
remember
one basic point so that nadi should be
one basic point so that nadi should be
one basic point so that nadi should be
happens by itself
happens by itself
happens by itself
you will always switch after every
you will always switch after every
you will always switch after every
exhalation
exhalation
exhalation
so that means whichever nostril you
so that means whichever nostril you
so that means whichever nostril you
inhale through
inhale through
inhale through
the same nostril you exhale through
the same nostril you exhale through
the same nostril you exhale through
you do narishuddi for a minimum of four
you do narishuddi for a minimum of four
you do narishuddi for a minimum of four
minutes
a few corrections for the practice do
a few corrections for the practice do
a few corrections for the practice do
not keep
not keep
not keep
your left hand on the thigh the left
your left hand on the thigh the left
your left hand on the thigh the left
hand
hand
hand
should be loosely placed in the middle
should be loosely placed in the middle
should be loosely placed in the middle
of your lap
of your lap
of your lap
to clarify on the right hand you use
to clarify on the right hand you use
to clarify on the right hand you use
only your thumb
only your thumb
only your thumb
and ring finger the ring and little
and ring finger the ring and little
and ring finger the ring and little
finger
finger
finger
are held straight and are side by side
are held straight and are side by side
are held straight and are side by side
touching
touching
touching
fold your middle and index fingers
fold your middle and index fingers
fold your middle and index fingers
if you are unable to hold them straight
if you are unable to hold them straight
if you are unable to hold them straight
do it as best you can
also there's a tendency to keep the head
also there's a tendency to keep the head
also there's a tendency to keep the head
down
down
down
or turn to one side
or turn to one side
or turn to one side
unconsciously your face may tilt one way
unconsciously your face may tilt one way
unconsciously your face may tilt one way
or the other
or the other
or the other
your head should be straight
your head should be straight
your head should be straight
if you maintain this your system will
if you maintain this your system will
if you maintain this your system will
come to a balance
come to a balance
come to a balance
very quickly
ensure not to press too hard on the
ensure not to press too hard on the
ensure not to press too hard on the
lower part of the nostril
lower part of the nostril
lower part of the nostril
locate the septal bone on your right
locate the septal bone on your right
locate the septal bone on your right
nostril
nostril
nostril
just a millimeter beneath that if you
just a millimeter beneath that if you
just a millimeter beneath that if you
place the thumb
place the thumb
place the thumb
with very minimal pressure you can block
with very minimal pressure you can block
with very minimal pressure you can block
the nostril
the nostril
the nostril
effectively so that no air can escape
effectively so that no air can escape
effectively so that no air can escape
ensure you are not breathing shallow
ensure you are not breathing shallow
ensure you are not breathing shallow
doing normal breathing
doing normal breathing
doing normal breathing
or holding the breath the breathing
or holding the breath the breathing
or holding the breath the breathing
should be
should be
should be
fully in and fully out
we will do nadi shuddi together now
sit in a cross-legged posture with your
sit in a cross-legged posture with your
sit in a cross-legged posture with your
spine comfortably erect
spine comfortably erect
spine comfortably erect
if you are unable to sit on the floor
if you are unable to sit on the floor
if you are unable to sit on the floor
you can sit in a chair with your legs
you can sit in a chair with your legs
you can sit in a chair with your legs
crossed
crossed
crossed
at the ankles
left hand should be loosely placed in
left hand should be loosely placed in
left hand should be loosely placed in
the middle of your lap
the middle of your lap
the middle of your lap
palm facing upward
palm facing upward
palm facing upward
use only your right hand use your thumb
use only your right hand use your thumb
use only your right hand use your thumb
and ring finger fold your middle and
and ring finger fold your middle and
and ring finger fold your middle and
index fingers
index fingers
index fingers
the ring and little finger are held
the ring and little finger are held
the ring and little finger are held
straight and are side by side touching
straight and are side by side touching
straight and are side by side touching
close your eyes now block your right
close your eyes now block your right
close your eyes now block your right
nostril with your thumb
nostril with your thumb
nostril with your thumb
and inhale through your left nostril
and inhale through your left nostril
and inhale through your left nostril
after the inhalation is complete exhale
after the inhalation is complete exhale
after the inhalation is complete exhale
through the seam
now using the ring finger block your
now using the ring finger block your
now using the ring finger block your
left nostril
left nostril
left nostril
and inhale through the right nostril
then exhale through the same
again block the right and open the left
again block the right and open the left
again block the right and open the left
inhale
and exhale continue to do this
and exhale continue to do this
and exhale continue to do this
until we ask you to stop
be focused on your breath
the breathing is fully in and fully out
do it as slowly and gently as you can
make sure your spine is comfortably
erect
ensure your head is straight
continue to be focused on your breath
you can end with an exhalation through
you can end with an exhalation through
you can end with an exhalation through
your left nostril and stop
please slowly open your eyes
peace is not the ultimate goal of life
peace is not the ultimate goal of life
peace is not the ultimate goal of life
it is the most fundamental requirement
it is the most fundamental requirement
it is the most fundamental requirement
if you hold it as the ultimate goal in
if you hold it as the ultimate goal in
if you hold it as the ultimate goal in
your life
your life
your life
you will only rest in peace
you

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 16 =====

antar yatra bologna novel the yoga Mahatma I wish you a hard knock league. Jivan Sathi Karan but the weed in marijuana garden the now say mukta Jivan Jinnah mushkil the home a a marine cherry almond a marine Jivan man a marine article of man on cheecha ko Lana but I wish you can Joe home a the now but he always thought maybe the now say mukta the henna car the last of the car the pocket day or was humble hair yoga nitya abhyasa my chubby yoga premium say I got a guru ma a hard work some junk food curry it can be the new yoga abhyasa for home salad with your wing. Yoga go eat and learn banana man home swimming home in the garden wing. But I have big here. Dunya kiss of Santa man home yoga dwara a home yoga done they suck that my up with the mental garden home Philip antarastriya yoga divas the name making yoga John Cena the garden Kelly 84 that participated in a single yoga session. Millions of people participated with full enthusiasm in this first International Day of Yoga celebrations across the globe. Yoga is essentially a spiritual discipline based on extremely subtle science. It is an art and science for healthy living. The word yoga is derived from the Sanskrit word yoga meaning to join or unite. According to yogic scriptures, the practice of yoga leads to the union of the individual consciousness with that of the universal consciousness. Indicating a perfect balance between mind and body, man and nature. The science of yoga has its origins thousands of years ago before the first religions or belief systems were born. In yogic lore, Shiva, the first yogi or Adi Yogi, transmitted his profound knowledge to his seven disciples, the famous Saptarishis or the seven sages. Yoga was practiced through the pre-Vedic period. But, it was Maharishi Patanjali, known as the father of modern yoga, who systematized and codified the then practices through his Yoga Sutras. Later, many yoga masters contributed to the preservation and development of yoga and the spreading of this wonderful practice. There are different schools of yoga. These include Jnana yoga, Bhakti yoga, Karma yoga, Patanjala yoga, Hatha yoga, Kundalini yoga, Dhyana yoga, Mantra yoga, Laya yoga, Jaina yoga, Bauddha yoga, etc. Each school has its own approach and practices that lead to the ultimate aims and objectives of yoga. Some of the widely practiced yoga sadhanas are Yama, Niyama, Asana, Pranayama, Pratyahara, Dharana, Dhyana, Samadhi, Bandha, and Mudra, Shatkarmas, Yukta Ahara, Mantra Japa, Yukta Karma. A yoga practitioner should follow the guiding principles while performing yogic practices. Before practice, yogic practice should be performed in a calm and quiet atmosphere with a relaxed body and mind. It should be done on an empty stomach or light stomach. Consume a small amount of honey in lukewarm water if you feel weak. Light and comfortable cotton clothes are preferred to facilitate easy movement of the body. In case of chronic diseases or pain or cardiac a physician or a yoga therapist should be consulted prior to performing yogic practices. During practice, practice sessions should start with a prayer or invocation as it creates a conducive environment to relax the mind. Yogic practices shall be performed slowly in a relaxed manner with awareness of the body and breath. Do not hold the breath unless it is specially mentioned to do so. Do not hold the body tightly or jerk the body. Perform the practices according to your own capacity. End the session with deep silence or Shanti path. Food or a bath may be taken only 20 to 30 minutes after practice. Welcome to the world of yoga. Welcome to the world of wisdom that is as relevant and beneficial today as it was thousands of years ago. Sam gachhadhwam sam vadadhwam Welcome to the world of yoga. Let us start yoga sadhana with chalana kriyas or loosening practices to increase microcirculation. Neck exercises, forward and backward neck bending. Stand in an alert posture. Keep feet comfortably apart and your arms on the waist. Exhale and bend head forward slowly and try to touch the chin to the chest. Inhale. Move the head as far back as is comfortable and come back with inhalation. Right and left neck bending. Exhale, bend the head slowly to the right. Bring the ear as close as possible to the shoulder. Inhale, bring the head to normal position. Exhale, bend the head to the left side. Inhale, bring the head up to normal position. Right and left twisting. Exhale, gently turn the head to the right side so that the chin is in line with the shoulder. Inhale, bring the head to the normal position. Exhale, turn the head to the left side. Inhale, and bring the head to the normal position. Neck rotation. Bend the head forward trying to touch the chin to the chest. Inhale, slowly rotate the head clockwise. While coming down, exhale. Rotate the head in anti-clockwise direction. Feel the stretch around the neck and loosening up of the joints and muscles of the neck and release of tension in the neck. People with neck pain and spondylitis should do the practice gently. Shoulder movements. Feet together, make the body straight. The arms by the sides. Inhale, raise both the arms sideways above your head with the palms outwards. Exhale, and bring them down in the same manner. The arms must not touch the head when going up or the thighs when coming down. The palms must be open with the fingers together. Shoulder rotation. Stand erect. Raise both the arms. Place the fingers of the left hand on the left shoulder and the fingers of the right hand on the right shoulder. Full rotation of both the elbows in a circular manner. Try to touch the elbows in front of the chest on the forward movement and touch the ears while moving up. Stretch the arm back in the backward movement and touch the sides of the trunk while coming down. Do the same anticlockwise. And repeat five times. Practice of this kriya makes the bones, muscles, and nerves of the shoulder region healthy. These practices are helpful in cervical spondylitis and frozen shoulder. Trunk twisting. Keep the legs about 2 ft apart. Raise both the arms up to chest level with the palms facing each other. Exhale. Twist the body towards the right side so that the left palm touches the right shoulder. Come back with inhalation. Now, exhale. Twist the body towards the left side so that the right palm touches the left shoulder. Come back with inhalation. Repeat. Do slowly with breathing. Avoid this practice in case of vertebral and disc disorders and during menstruation. Relax in standing posture. Knee movements. Inhale. Lift your arms up at the shoulder level. Exhale. Bend the knees and bring down your body to the squatting position. Inhale and straighten the body. Repeat two more times. This practice strengthens the knees and hip joints. Avoid this in case suffering from acute arthritis. Exhale while bringing down the hands. Now, let us move to yoga asana. Tadasana. Tad means palm tree. Keep your feet 2 in apart. Interlock the fingers and turn the wrist outwards. Inhale. Raise the arms up and bring them in line with the shoulders. Raise the heels off the floor and balance on the toes. Stay in this position for 10 to 15 seconds. This asana brings stability in the body. Helps to clear up congestion of the spinal nerves. Corrects faulty posture. Exhale. Bring the heels down. Release the interlock of the fingers and bring the arms down parallel to the trunk and come back to a standing posture. Vrikshasana Vriksh means tree. Stand with the feet 2 in apart. Focus on a point in front. Exhale, bend the right leg and place the foot on the inside of the left thigh. The heel should be touching the perineum. Inhale and extend the arms up and join the palms. Stay in this position for 10 to 15 seconds and breathe normally. This improves neuromuscular coordination, endurance, and alertness. Avoid this practice in case of arthritis and obesity. Exhale and bring the arms and right foot down. And repeat the asana. Bend the left leg and place the foot on the right thigh. The heel should touch the perineum. Inhale. Extend the arms up and join the palms. Relax. Padahastasana Pada means foot. Hasta means hand. Inhale slowly and raise the arms up. Stretch up the body from the waist. Exhale and bend forward until the entire palm rests on the ground. Maintain this final posture for 10 to 30 seconds. Those who have a stiff back should bend according to their capacity. Now, inhale. Come up slowly to the vertical position and stretch the arms above the head. Exhale and slowly return to the starting position in reverse order. Relax. Ardha Chakrasana. Support the back at the waist. Exhale. Drop the head backwards, stretch the neck muscles, and bend backwards from the lumbar region. Relax with normal breathing. Stay there for 10 to 30 seconds. Ardha Chakra makes the spine flexible and strengthens the spinal nerves and improves breathing capacity. Inhale and slowly come up and relax. Hypertensive patients shall bend with care. Trikonasana. Trikon means triangle. Stand with your feet comfortably apart. Slowly raise both the arms sideways till they are horizontal. Exhale. Slowly bend to the right side and place the right hand just behind the right foot. The left arm is straight up in line with the right arm. Remain in this posture for 10 to 30 seconds with normal breathing. This prevents flat foot, strengthens the calf, thigh, and waist muscles, makes the spine flexible. As you inhale, slowly come up. Repeat for the left side. Avoid this posture in case of slipped disc, sciatica, and after undergoing abdominal surgery. Do not go beyond your limits. Bhadrasana. Let us now get ready for sitting postures. Bhadrasana. Bhadra means firm. Sit erect with the legs stretched out straight in front. Keep the hands beside the hips. This is dandasana. Now put the soles of your feet together. Exhale and clasp your hands together over your toes. Pull your heels as close as possible up to the perineum region. This is the final position. Stay here for some time. Bhadrasana keeps the body firm and stabilizes the mind. Now stretch your leg and come to vishramasana. Avoid this practice in case of severe arthritis and sciatica. Vajrasana. Sit in dandasana. Fold your legs and sit on your heels. Keep the thighs closed and big toes touching. Place the hands on the knees. The head and back should be straight. This is Vajrasana. Ardha Ushtrasana. Sit in Vajrasana. Get up on your knees. Place the hands on the waist with the fingers pointing downwards. Keep the elbows and shoulders parallel. Bend the head back and stretch the neck muscles. And bend the trunk backwards as much as possible. As you exhale, relax. Remain in this posture for 10 to 30 seconds with normal breathing. It helps to strengthen the back and neck muscles, relieves constipation and back pain. Return with inhalation. Sit in Vajrasana. Relax. Now we perform the full version of Ushtrasana. Sit in Vajrasana. Kneel down on the floor. Keep your thighs and feet together. Get up on your knees. Bring the knees and the feet a few inches apart. While inhaling, bend backwards. Place the right palm on the right heel and the left palm on the left heel. Be careful not to jerk the neck while bending backwards. Ushtrasana is extremely useful for defective eyesight. This is useful in relieving back pain and neck pain. It helps to reduce fat over the abdomen and hips. Those suffering from high blood pressure, heart disease, and hernia should not practice this. Return with inhalation. Sit in Vajrasana. Relax. Shashankasana. Shashank means head. Spread both the knees wide apart. Keep the toes touching. Keep the palms between the knees. Exhale and slowly stretch them full length. Bend forward and place the chin on the ground. Keep the arms parallel. Look in front and maintain the posture. This helps to reduce stress and anger. Inhale and come up. Exhale and come back to Vajrasana. Stretch your legs back to Vishramasana. Patients with osteoarthritis should do this with caution. Uttan Mandukasana. The final position of Uttan Mandukasana resembles an upright frog, hence the name. Sit in Vajrasana. Spread both the knees wide apart while the toes remain together. Inhale. Raise both the arms. Then cross both arms behind the head and place the hands on the upper part of the opposite shoulders. Keep the back and neck straight. Maintain this position for a while. This asana is helpful in back ache and cervical pain. It helps in improving diaphragmatic movement and helps to improve lung capacity. Persons with severe knee joint pain should not perform it. While coming back, slowly raise both the arms with inhalation. Bring back and bring the knees together as in the initial position. Vakrasana. Vakra means twisted. Bend the right leg and place the right foot beside the left knee. Bring the left arm around the right knee and place the palm beside the right foot. Exhale. Twist the body and neck to the right. Comfortably remain in this posture. Turn your head back. Take out your hands with exhalation. Stretch your legs. Now, come back and relax in Vishramasana. This asana increases flexibility of the spine. It helps to overcome constipation, dyspepsia, and in the management of diabetes. Repeat the same on the other side. Turn your head back. Take out your hands with exhalation. Stretch your legs. Now, come back and relax in Vishramasana. Makarasana Makara means crocodile. Lie down on your stomach with the feet wide apart. Feet pointing outward. Rest your head on your hands. Relax. This is Makarasana. This asana is practiced for relaxation in all prone postures. It promotes relaxation of the lower back. Bhujangasana Now, let us be ready for prone postures. Bhujangasana Bhujang means snake or cobra. Lie down on your stomach. Rest your head on your hands and relax the body. Now, join your legs and stretch your arms. Keep the forehead on the ground. Keep your palms beside the chest and raise the elbows. Inhale, lift the chin and chest up to the navel region. This is Bhujangasana. This asana is best for stress management. It also helps to manage back ache and bronchial problems. Exhale. Rest your forehead on the ground and stretch your arms. Spread your legs. Place your palms and rest your head on the palms and relax. Salabhasana. Salabha means a locust. Lie down on your stomach. Now, join your legs. Rest the chin on the floor. Keep both hands beside the body. Palms facing upwards. Inhale. Raise the legs off the floor as much as you can without bending the knees. Extend the arms and legs well to ease the lift of the body off the floor. Stay in position comfortably. This asana helps in sciatica and lower back ache. It tones the hip muscles. Now, exhale. Bring the legs down towards the floor. Take out your arms and rest on the floor. Cardiac patients should avoid this posture. Setu Bandhasana. Now, we move to supine postures. Setu Bandhasana. Setu Bandh means formation of a bridge. Join your legs. Keep the arms beside the body. Bend both the legs at the knees and bring the heels near the buttocks. Hold both the ankles firmly. Inhale. Slowly raise your buttocks and trunk up as much as you can to form a bridge. Remain comfortably. This is the final position. This asana relieves depression and anxiety. It strengthens the lower back muscles. Now, exhale. Slowly return to the original position and relax. Lie down on your back. Please note, women in advanced stages of pregnancy should not practice this asana. Uttanpadasana, raised feet posture. In this asana, the legs are raised upward in a supine position, hence the name. Lie comfortably on the ground with the legs stretched out. The hands should be placed by the sides. While inhaling, slowly raise both the legs without bending them at the knees and bring them to a 30° angle. Maintain this position with normal breathing. Exhale and slowly bring both the legs down and place them on the ground. It balances the navel center, nabhi manipura chakra. Ardha Halasana, half plow posture. This posture is known as ardha Halasana because in its final position, the body resembles half the shape of an Indian plow. Take a supine position. Keep the hands by the sides of the thighs, palms resting on the ground. Slowly raise your legs together without bending at the knees. First raise the legs up to 30°, then further up to a 60° angle. Now, slowly raise the legs to a 90° angle. This is the final position of the Ardha Halasana. The body from the hip to the shoulder should be kept straight. Then slowly bring the legs back to the ground without lifting the head. This is very beneficial for hypertensive patients, but needs to be practiced with care. Those who have lumbosacral or lower back pain should not perform this with both legs together. Pawanmuktasan Bend both the knees and bring the thighs to the chest. Interlock the fingers and clasp the shin below the knee. Raise the head and shoulders. Try to touch the knees with the chin. This is Pawanmuktasana. This removes constipation. Gives relief from flatulence and tones up the back muscles and spinal nerves. Bring your head back. Exhale. Stretch your legs and relax. Avoid this practice in case of abdominal injuries, hernia, sciatica, and during pregnancy. Shavasana. Shav means the dead body. This asana is meant for complete relaxation. Lie down on your back with the arms and legs comfortably apart. Palms facing upward. Eyes closed. Relax the whole body consciously. Become aware of natural breath. And allow it to become rhythmic and slow. Remain in this position till you feel refreshed and relaxed. This asana helps relieve all kinds of tensions and gives rest to both the body and the mind. It is very beneficial in the management of stress and its consequences. Kapalabhati. It and stimulates respiratory centers in the frontal brain. Sit in any meditative posture. Close the eyes and relax the whole body. Inhale deeply. Expand the chest. Expel the breath with forceful contractions of the abdominal muscles. Continue active exhalation and passive inhalation. Then take a deep breath. Exhale slowly and relax. This is one round of Kapalabhati. Each round should be followed by deep breathing. Now, do two more rounds. Kapalabhati purifies the frontal air sinuses. Helps to overcome cough disorders. It is useful in treating colds, rhinitis, sinusitis, asthma, and bronchial infections. Please avoid this practice in case of cardiac conditions, high blood pressure, vertigo, migraine, stroke, hernia, and gastric ulcers. Pranayama, Nadi Shodhana or Anulom Vilom Pranayama is alternate breathing through the left and right nostrils. Sit in a meditative posture. Keep the spine straight and the head erect with eyes closed. Relax the body with a few deep breaths. Keep the left palm on the left knee in Gyan Mudra. The right hand should be in the Nasikagra Mudra. Place the right thumb on the right nostril. Breathe in from the left nostril. Close the left nostril. Exhale through the right nostril. Next, inhale through the right nostril. Close the right nostril and exhale through the left nostril. This is one round of Nadi Shodhana or Anulom Vilom Pranayama. Repeat for another five rounds. For beginners, the duration of inhalation and exhalation should be equal. Gradually, make it 1:2 inhalation, exhalation. The breath should be slow, steady, and controlled. The main purpose of this pranayama is to purify the principal channels of energy. This nourishes the whole body. It induces tranquility. Helps to improve concentration. It increases vitality. And lowers the level of stress and anxiety. It also elevates cough disorders. Sheetali pranayama. Sheet means cool. It also means calm and passionless. As the name indicates, this pranayama cools the mind-body system. Sit in the padmasana or any other comfortable sitting posture. Place the hands on the knees in the Gyan mudra or Anjali mudra. Roll the tongue in from the sides to shape it as a tube. Inhale through this tube-shaped tongue. Fill the lungs with air to their maximum capacity and close the mouth. And then slowly exhale through the nostrils. Sheetali pranayama purifies the blood. It has a cooling effect on the body. It is beneficial for persons suffering from high blood pressure. It satisfies thirst and appeases hunger. It relieves indigestion and disorders caused by phlegm, cough, and bile. It is beneficial for the skin and the eyes. Those who are suffering from cold, cough, or tonsillitis should not do this pranayama. Brahmari pranayama Brahmarah means a black bee. During the exhalation of this pranayama, the sound produced resembles the buzzing of a black bee. Inhale deeply through both nostrils. Exhale slowly in a controlled manner making a deep, steady humming sound as that of a black bee. This is one round of brahmari. Repeat two more times. This is a great tranquilizer. It's found good in the management of stress-related disorder. Now, do the brahmari with shanmukhi mudra. Close your ears with your thumbs. Place the forefingers on your eyes, middle fingers on the nostrils, ring finger and small fingers on the lips. Open your nose and inhale through both nostrils. Exhale slowly in a controlled manner, making the deep humming sound of a black bee. It is a useful preparatory pranayama for concentration and meditation. Now, let us prepare for dhyan. Dhyan, or meditation, is an act of continuous contemplation. Sit in any meditative posture. Keep your spine comfortably erect. Hold jnana mudra. Keep your palms facing upwards upon the thighs. Arms and shoulders should be loose and relaxed. Close your eyes and sit with a slightly upturned face. You need not concentrate. Just maintain a mild focus between the eyebrows and be conscious of your breath. Dhyan keeps the mind calm and quiet. It increases concentration, memory, clarity of thought, and will It rejuvenates the whole body and mind, giving them proper rest. It helps to develop positive emotions. Meditation leads to self-realization. Continue to be in this state of dhyan. Ooh. Ooh. Ooh. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Let us now take some cup. I commit to make myself into a healthy, peaceful, joyful, and loving human being. Through every action of mine, I will strive to create a peaceful and loving atmosphere around me. I strive to break the limitations of who I am right now and include the entire world as my own. I recognize the kinship of my own life with every other life. I recognize the unity of all that is. End the yoga practice session with Shanti path or universal prayer. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti Mhm.

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 17 =====

Exhalation. Start with nostril exhalation. You need to switch on your videos. Now start exhalation from second nostril. I have given spotlights to some of us. Rotate your shoulders. Let's start. 1 2 3 4. Antie. 1 2 3 4 tricep stretch. One tricep two. Tricep 3. 4. Raise your arms over your head. Right palm on left and left on right. Keep breathing. Keep breathing. Now let's start a shoulder opener neck release. Come down on the belly. Come down on the belly. Thumbs up. Thumbs up. Yes. Raise your hands. Both hands up. Not the legs. Both hands up. Very nice. Or handsread. Yes. Keep holding this posture. Put it down. Hands will not go back. Again. Raise your hands up. Make V alphabet V. Raise your head. Raise your shoulder. Put it down. Legs will not be lifted again. Raise your hands up. Same thing. Put it down. Now bend your elbows. Put them beside your chest. H. Elbows on the mat. Elbows on the mat. Now make a thumbs up again. Raise your hands with bent elbow. Hands up. Yes. Like that. Look very nice. Look forward. Keep breathing. Put it down again. Do the same thing. Take yourself up in this posture. Put it down. again. Do it. Take yourself up. Put it down. Now come in the forward position on the mat. sideways thumbs up. Make a thumbs up and again lift your hands, chest, head, legs will not be lifted. Straight line hand. If you have a space crunch, I would suggest go for alphabet V to first practice. Put it down again. Take yourself up. Legs will not be lifted. Put it down. Head also down. One more time. Take yourself up. Straight line up. Head up. child pose. From this child pose, now put your palms beside your ears on the mat. And now form a mini mountain toesap mountain. Yes. Mini mountain gap. Yes. No. Yes. Now, very slowly for the count of 10, start working on your calves. One, heels up and down. 2 3 4 5 Do not release the posture. Six. Take two steps inside. Now again, heels up and down. 1 2 3 4 5 6. Now take one more step inside if you can. If you cannot then stay wherever you are right now. Yes. And take one of the legs up from the back. This time heels will not be raised. Put this leg down. Take another leg up. Both the knees have to be straight. Put it down. Come in child pose. Hunch of the back curve of the back. Let's start sura namaskaras. Don't rush. Let's start. Inhale up. You can take break in between any time. Right. Be very slow. Left knee. You can click your pictures. Chest. You can post them on social media also. Up. Mountain. Right. Left. Up. Down. Left. Right. Knee. Chest. Up. Mountain. Left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, Chest up mountain left right up down right left knee chest up mountain right left up down very slow left Right. Knee. Chest. Up. Mountain. Left. Right. Up. Down. Right. Be slow. Left. Knee. Chest. Up. Mountain. Right. Left. Up. Down. Left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, Up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down. 6. A right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down. Sixth B, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right. Up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain. Left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down, left, right, chest, up, Counting left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, bouncing, right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, Mountain left right up down. Stand there. Right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down. 10th beat. Left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain. Stay in mountain. Stay in mountain. Take a deep breath in mountain. Inhale. Exhale from your mouth. Inhale. Exhale from your mouth. Now left forward. Right forward. Up. Down. Right. Left. Knee. Chest up. Mountain. Right. Left. Up, down, left, right. Knee chest up. Mountain left right up down right left. Knee chest up. Mountain right. Left up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, Right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left. If you get tired, take break. Knee, cat and cow is the break. Chest up. Mountain left right up down right left knee chest up mountain right left up down left. 15th beat right is closing knee chest up mountain left right up down right 16th left knee chest up mountain right left up down Left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain. Left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain. Right, left, up, down. Left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain. Left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left. Slow down. Up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, Up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up. Stay in mountain. Inhale from your nose. Exhale from your mouth. Inhale from your nose. Exhale from your mouth. Inhale from your nose. Exhale from your mouth. Left, right. Breathe in up. While exhaling, go down. Exhale from your mouth. Inhale. Right forward. Left forward. Knee. Chest. Up. Mountain. Be slow. Right. Left. Up. Down. Left. Right knee chest up bound. Left, right up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down. Left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, neck, Up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, Up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, Left up, down, left, right, knee, chest up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, Up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, Down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down, left, Right. Knee chest up. Mountain. Left. Right. Up. Down. Right. Left. Knee. Chest. Up. Mountain. Right. Left. Up. D. Left. Right knee, chest up. mountain. Left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest. Stay in mountain. Inhale from your nose. 30. Exhale from your mouth. Inhale from your nose. Exhale from your mouth. Left forward right forward. Up down right. Left knee chest up mountain. If you're tired, right, stay break. Left up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, bouncing, right, knee, Left up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, Left, up, down, left, right, knee. Keep doing it. Chest up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain. Right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, Up, down dog, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, Up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, Down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain. Right, left, up, down. Left, right, knee, chest, up. mountain. Left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up. Come in mountain. Stay there. Breathe in from your nose. Exhale from your mouth. Breathe in from your nose. Exhale from your mouth. Breathe in. Exhale from your mouth. Left forward. Right. Breathe in up. 40 done. Down. Right, left, knee, chest. Slow down. Up. Mountain. Right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain. Left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, Down, right, left, knee, chest, up, bouncing, right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, Knee chest up mountain right left up down left right knee chest up mountain left. This is the fourth round. We are closing up and up. Down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, Left knee chest up mountain right left up down left right knee chest up mountain left right up down 47th right left knee chest Up mountain right left up down left right knee chest up bouncing left right up down right left knee chest up Mountain right left up down left right knee chest up mountain left right up down right this is eighth round left knee 48th chest up mountain right left Up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down, left, Right knee, chest up, mountain. Left, right, up, down, right, left. B, chest, up. Mountain, right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up. Mountain. Left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain, left, right. Up down 50 seconds right. Come on, we are closing. Left one, chest up. Mountain right, left. Breathing up, down, left, right, chest, up, mountain. Left, right, up, down. 53rd. Right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up, mountain. Left, right, up, down, right, left, knee, chest, up, mountain, right, left, up, down, left, right, knee, chest, up. Stay in mountain. Breathe in from your nose. Breathe out from your mouth. Breathe in from your nose. Breathe out from your mouth. Do not release the posture. Left forward. I'll tell you what to do next. Right. Breathe in up. Tarasan. Inhale from your nose. And tarasan. 54 rounds. 108 rounds have been completed. Many many congratulation to everyone because it's not an easy thing to do. Stay in tarasan. Stay in tarasan. Now come in child pose. Let's get into elevated child pose. Do not move your palms. Stand on the knee. Rather shift your one palm outside then they the same distance the other one. Yes. Start shifting your back literally back. Shift your palms beside your ears. Hunch off the back. Breathe in. Stay in hunch only. Make sure your alignment is good. Your wrist and shoulder in one line. Your hip andion one line. Your wrist, knee and heels are in one line. So basically you are in perpendicular position. Curve off the back. Now keep breathing in curve. Belly hollow hollowess inverted yoga. Without shifting your palm again go back into child pose. Now shift your palm in child pose. Extend your hands. Well now without shifting your palm stand on your knee again. Shift one of the palms one at a time away from your shoulders. How far can the can they be placed on the mat? Yes. And now from here start taking yourself back start shifting your hip towards your heels, forehead, armpit, chest. Everything has been kept on the mat. Elevated child pose. Shift your palms. Get down on the belly. The last stretch of the day. Get down on the belly. Take your hands out on the ground straight like a superman. Spread them. Thumbs up. Spread them. Not linear position. V. Banana. V. Wings. Breathe in up with your head, shoulders, and hands. Inhale. Exhale. Inhale. Now while exhaling, go down. Now bend your elbows. Place them on the mat. And in this posture, lift yourself up. in this posture. Legs think look at the screen. No, no, no, no. Look at the screen. Keep breathing here. Put yourself down. Now take your hands out in linear position. One straight line 180° straight at the level of shoulder. Not forward at the level of shoulder. Straight line. Thumbs up. Lift yourself up again. Head up. Chest up. Hands up. Legs are kept on mat. Put everything down. Try pose. Sit on the mat. Palms beside hip. Head and shoulder back. Sundep. Can I give you the spotlight? Okay. Palms beside hip, head and shoulder back. Keep breathing here. Thank you for sharing the picture of the day. Hands. And this is middle back stretch. Take your spine out from the back. Raise your arms over your head. Right palm on left shoulder. Left on right. Keep breathing here. Sha, you have the spotlight. Keep breathing here. Just close your eyes. Done. Done. I hope you like today's session. 54 is equal to 108 right and left. I know I know it's not as easy. December snowfall. You will sweat a lot. It generates a lot of heat in the body. Thank you. I hope you like this session. Thank you so much. Yeah. Okay.

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 18 =====

[Music] [Music] neck rotation. Exhale. Bend the head forward to touch the chin to the chest. Inhale. Slowly rotate the head clockwise in circular motion. Exhale and come down. Repeat two more rounds. Inhale. Take your neck back. Exhale. Come down. Inhale. One more time. Slowly exhale and come down. Now we'll rotate the head in anticlockwise direction. Inhale and go [Music] back. Exhale and slowly come down. And repeat two more rounds. Inhale. Exhale. Inhale. And exhale. Inhale. Bring your neck back to the normal position. Bring your arms down. Close your eyes and relax. Feel the impact of the practice. [Music]

===== CLUSTER 6 | ITEM 19 =====

Relax now inshamasu. Arms and legs comfortably apart. Legs 2 to 3 ft apart. Arms 6 to 8 in away. of the body. Allow your feet to fall to the sides. Palms are turned upwards. Relax your body. Relax your mind by becoming aware. Begin by relaxing your legs. Relax your arms. Relax the shoulders. Relax the whole back. Relax the neck and the face. Notice any physical tension and very gently release it consciously. Also relax your mind. Let go of the thoughts of the day. your different cares and concerns, anxieties and worries, fears and problems. Allow the mind to relax. Bring your awareness and attention to being in the class, being with yourself. to relax even deeper. Become aware of your breath. Feel and experience the breath in the body. The abdomen expanding as you inhale. The abdomen contracting as you exhale. Slow, long, deep inhale. Slow, long, complete exhale. Each inhalation bringing you fresh energy. Prana. Each exhalation carrying away with it some tiredness, some tension. And you relax. The slower, longer, and deeper you breathe, the better it is. Inhale slowly and deeply fresh energy prana. Exhale slowly completely you relax. Relax. Relax. Good. Now bring the legs together. Stretch both arms over behind your head. Inhale. Stretch them away. Exhale. Release the arms. Turning to one side. Please come and sit up. Let's begin the class with a prayer. Home chanting. [Music] [Music] for [Music] Gohan. foreign. [Music] [Music] for [Music] [Music] most Shante. Let's begin with the practice of surya namaskar sun salutation. Please come and stand up. Please come and stand on top of your mat. Begin slowly. Let the body open up on its own. Do not push yourself in the first couple of rounds. And do not struggle. Do only what you can do comfortably. If you need to take a break in between, please do so. First round salutation on the right side. Deep breath. Inhale. Exhale. One. Palms together. Breathing deeply. Two. Inhale. Arms up. Look up and arch back. Three. Gently exhale. Bend forward. Bend down. Four. Inhale. The right leg back. Knee on the floor. Toes out. Look up. Five. Hold the bend. Push-up position. Body in a straight line. Six. Exhale. Knees down. Chest down. Forward. Seven. Sliding forward. Inhale. Hips down. Head, shoulders, and chest up. Eight. Exhale. Hips up. Heels to the mat. Inverted V. Nine. Inhale. The right foot forward between the two hands. Left knee on the floor. Toes out. Look up. 10. Exhale. The left leg forward. Forehead close to the knees. 11. Inhale. Arms forward. Up and gently arch back. 12. Exhale. Arms down. Relax. On the left side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Palms together. Two. Inhale. Arms up. Arch back. Three. Exhale. Forward and down. Four. Inhale. The right leg back. Sorry, left leg back. Hold the breath. Push-up position. Body in a straight line. Six. Exhale. Knees, chest, forehead down. Seven. Inhale. Head, shoulders, and chest up. Eight. Exhale. Hips up. Heels to the mat. Inverted V. Nine. Inhale. The left leg forward. 10. Exhale the right leg forward. 11. Inhale deeply. 12. Exhale. Arms down. Relax. Second round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Palms together. Two. Inhale. Arms up. Arch back. Three. Exhale. Forward and down. Four. Inhale. The right leg back. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. knees chest forward and seven. Inhale head, shoulders and chest up. Eight, exhale inverted V. 9. Inhale the right foot forward. 10. Exhale the left leg. 11. Inhale deeply. 12. Exhale. Arms down. Relax. On the left side. Inhale. Exhale. One. 2. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain your breath. Six. Exhale. 7. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Inverted V. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. Deeply. 12. Exhale. Very good. Stretch a little more with each round. Also be conscious of your breathing. Try to breathe slowly and deeply synchronizing the movement with your breath. Third round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. One. 2. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Right leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. Deeply. 12. Exhale. On the left side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2. Inhale. 3. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Exhale the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. 9. Inhale. Left leg forward. 10. Exhale. The right leg. 11. Inhale. Arms up and arch back. 12. Exhale. Arms down. Relax. Fourth round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted. Nine. Inhale. Right leg forward. 10. Exhale. The left leg. 11. Inhale. Arms up. Arch back. 12. Exhale. Arms down. Relax. On the left side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Left leg forward. Inhale. Right leg. Exhale. 11. Inhale deeply. 12. Exhale. Fifth round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. One. 2. Inhale. 3. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Right leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. On the left side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2 inhale. 3. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Inver left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. Deep breath. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. Sixth round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. 3. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retail the breath. Six. Exhale. 7. Inhale. 8. Exhale. And let it be. Right leg forward. 9. Inhale. Left. Exhale. 11. Inhale. Deeply. 12. Exhale. Completely relax. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. Three. Three. Exhale. Four. Inhale. Left leg back. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Inverted V. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. Seventh round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Nine. Inhale. Right leg forward. 10. Exhale. The left leg. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale on the right side. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. Inhale. 12. Exhale. Eighth round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2 Inhale. 3. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Right leg forward. Nine. Inhale. Left. Exhale. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. One. 2. Inhale. 3. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. 9. Inhale. Left leg forward. 10. Exhale. The right leg breathing. 11. Inhale. Breathing. 12. Exhale. Ninth round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2 inhale. 3. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Right leg forward. 9. Inhale. Left leg. Exhale. 11. Inhale. Deeply. 12. Exhale. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2. Inhale. 3. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. Arms up. Arch back. 12. Exhale. Arms down. Relax. Nine rounds of sun salutation are over. Take a break. Separate your legs slightly. Relax for a moment. Allow the heartbeat to slow down. Relax your body. Relax your mind. If you feel tired or uncomfortable, you should come and lie down and relax. And then we continue. Bring your feet together. Let's do a few more rounds of sun salutation. Sura namaskar. 10th round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. Palms together. Inhale. Arms up. Arch back. Exhale. Bend forward and down. Inhale. The right leg back. Hold the breath. Left leg back. Six. Exhale. Knees, chest, forehead down. Seven. Inhale. Head, shoulders, and chest up. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Nine. Inhale. Right leg forward. 10. Exhale. Left leg. 11. Inhale. Arms up and arch back. 12. Exhale. Arms down. Relax. On the left side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Two, inhale. Three. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. 7. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. Breathing. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. Very good. 11th round. Right side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Four. Inhale. Right leg back. Five. Inhale in the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Right leg forward. Nine. Inhale. Left leg. Exhale. 11. Inhale deeply. 12. Exhale. Relax. On the left side. Inhale. Exhale. One. 2. Inhale. 3. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. Right leg exhale. Long breath. 11. Inhale. Long breath. 12. Exhale. 12th round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. One. 2. Inhale. 3. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Between the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Right leg forward. 9. Inhale. Left leg. Exhale. 11. Inhale. Deeply. 12. Exhale. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2. Inhale. 3. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. Breathe. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. 13th round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. 7. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Right leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. Inhale. 12. Exhale. 14th round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2 Inhale. 3. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Right leg forward. 9. Inhale. Left leg. Exhale. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. On the left side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2. Inhale. 3. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. Deeply. 12. Exhale. 15th. Round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Right leg forward. 9. Inhale. Left leg. Exhale. Breathe. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2 inhale. Three. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Inverted V. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. Long breath. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. Let us take a break once more. Keep your legs shoulderwidth apart. Relax your body. Relax your mind. You've completed 15 rounds of Surya Namaskar so far. And then let us do one final set of six more rounds of sun salutation. Please bring your legs together. 16th round of sura namaskar. Right side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Exhale. The breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Right leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. Deeply. 12. Exhale. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. One. 2. Inhale. 3. Exhale. Four. Inhale. Left leg back. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. Very good. 17th round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2 inhale. Three. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Right leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2 inhale. 3. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Left leg forward. Inhale. Right leg. Exhale. Inhale deeply. 12. Exhale. 18th round. Right side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2 inhale. 3. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Right leg forward. Inhale. Left leg. Exhale. Inhale. Deeply. 12. Exhale. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2 inhale. 3. Exhale. Left leg back. Inhale. Hold the breath. Right. Six. Exhale. 7. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. 19th round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Right leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. 7. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. Deeply. 12. Exhale. 20th round on the right side. Inhale. Exhale. One, two, inhale. 3 exhale. Right leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Right leg forward. Inhale. Left leg. Exhale. Breathing. 11. Inhale. 12. Exhale. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. One. Two. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Inverted V. Left leg forward. Inhale. Right leg. Exhale. Inhale 12. Exhale. 21st and last round. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2 inhale. Three. Exhale. Four. Inhale. Right leg back. Five. Hold the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. Eight. Exhale. Right leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. 11. Inhale. Deeply. 12. Exhale. Left side. Inhale. Exhale. 1 2 inhale. 3. Exhale. Left leg back. Four. Inhale. Five. Retain the breath. Six. Exhale. Seven. Inhale. 8. Exhale. Inverted V. Left leg forward. 9. Inhale. 10. Exhale. Long breath. 11. Inhale. Long breath. 12. Exhale. Keep the legs up shoulderwidth apart. 21 rounds of sun salutation. Surya namaskar. Wonderful. Now come and lie down. Relax in shavasana. Arms and legs comfortably apart. Palms turn upwards to face the ceiling. Relax your body. Relax your mind. Relax. Relax. Relax. [Music] Very good. Now bring your legs together. Stretch both arms over behind your head. Inhale. Give yourself a nice long stretch. And exhale. Release your arms. Turning to one side. Come and sit up. Relax in the child's pose shashankasana. After 21 rounds of surya namaskar sun salutation, we now prepare for 21 asas. Relaxing in the child's pose. Preparing for the headstand shasa. Mentally visualize yourself in the headstand. If you haven't done the shaman in the beginner's course, then avoid the headstand for the moment. You can either watch on the screen or you can continue to relax in the child's pose. Those who are familiar with the headstand and have done the show in the beginner's course, please come and sit up. You've been practicing the headstand. Please go ahead. The eight steps. Measure your arms by holding the elbows and place them in front of your knees. Step number one. Step number two, release your hands and make a tripod interlocking your fingers. Step number three, the crown of your head on the floor. Step number four, lift your knees up. Lift your hips up. Step number five, walk forward and get your back straight. Step number six, knees into the chest. Step number seven, gently lifting the knees up. Step number eight, straightening the legs. Now hold the headstand comfortably relaxing into the pose from the feet all the way down to the arms and the shoulders and the neck. Those who are attempting the headstand try the first three to four steps. Up to step number five, you should be able to practice safely. Those who are holding the headstand continue to hold comfortably. Do not struggle. If you feel like coming down, please do so. You relax for a while in the child's pose and then you can try the headstand once again. Holding the head time for another 30 to 45 seconds. Very good. Finishing up. Now slowly bend your knees into the chest and then slowly bring the feet down. Relax in the child's pose. Allow the blood circulation to come back to normal. And then when you're ready, come and sit up. Turn over. Lie back in shavasana. Arms and legs comfortably apart. Relax your body. Relax your mind. Let's continue with the shoulder stand sangasa. Bring your feet together. Bring your arms by the side of your body. Just make sure that uh you have enough space behind your head for the practice of halasana later. Now deep breath. Inhale. Lift your legs up, hips up, and support your back. Very good. Sarvangasana. The shoulder stand. See if we can gently lift your hips up a little higher. Bring your hands a little closer towards your shoulder blades. And now relax into the pose. Relaxing the legs, the calf muscles, and the thighs. Relaxing the hips. Relaxing the face, the eyes, and the forehead. Breathe all the way up to your toes. Breathe all the way down to your nose. Slow, long, deep inhalation. Slow, long, complete exhalation. Free up your breath by being conscious of the breath. [Music] Very good. Deep breath. Inhale. Exhale. Now preparing for harassana plow. First the half position. One more deep breath. Inhale. As you exhale, slowly lower your right leg down behind your head. Take your time. Do what you can. comfortably. Inhale the right leg up. Exhale slowly. Bring the left leg down. Keep breathing if you need to. Do not struggle. Left leg up. Inhale. One more time. Exhale. The right leg down behind your head. Inhale the right leg up. Exhale the left leg down. Inhale the left leg up. Now prepare for halasana the plow. Slowly exhale. Bring both legs down behind your head. Keep supporting your back. For many of us, our back and legs are quite stiff. So if your feet are not touching the floor behind the head, it doesn't matter. Just keep supporting your back. If your toes come and rest on the floor comfortably, then unsupport your back. You can keep your arms on the floor with the palms turned upwards or you can interlock your fingers and pull the arms slightly to give a dynamic effect to the nature to the asa. You can lift the knees away from the face. Breathing comfortably or as comfortably as you can in this posture. Cloud alasana. Couple of long deep breaths in halasa. Good. Now support your back. Prepare for the bridge. Satu bundasan. Inhale. Slowly bring your legs back up into the shoulder stand. And then slowly in your own time drop your legs forward. One leg at a time. Keep supporting your back in the same way as you were doing in the shoulder stand. If you are more experienced as a practitioner, you can stretch your legs forward towards the end of the mat and also bring your knees closer together. The others can keep holding the posture as it is. Very good. Slowly bring the feet back. Release your hands. And bring the hips down. Keep the legs as they are. Catch hold of your ankles. The legs are apart. The knees are apart. Let's practice the wheel chakra asana. First the half position. Now inhale. Lift your hips and thighs up. the chakrasa the half wheel. Breathe in nicely. Breathe into the abdomen. Breathe into the lower back and slowly exhale. Bring the hips down. Keeping the legs as they are, change the position of your hands. Bring them underneath your shoulders. Let's practice the wheel chakrasana. Gather your energy by breathing a couple of times slowly and deeply. Very good. Now inhale. Lift your hips up. Chest up. Shoulders up. Head up. The wheel chakra. Hold it. Breathing strong. Breathing strong and slowly exhale. Bring the hips down. Bend your knees into the chest. Hug your knees. And then release your legs. Relax in chavasana. Arms and legs comfortably apart. You relax. To complete the shoulder stand cycle, let's practice the fish matsa. legs together. Arms directly underneath your body. Elbows close together. Inhale the lift your head and shoulders up. Chest up. Tilt your head back and keep the crown of your head on the floor behind you. Breathing deep. Breathing long. Breathe all the way to the tip of your nose. As you inhale all the way down to the toes as you exhale. Yeah. Very good. Inhale and gently slide the head down. Exhale. Release your arms. Shake out your shoulders. Gently turn your head a couple of times to the right and left. Bring the head back to the center. Arms and legs comfortably apart. Relax in shavasana. Enjoy the experience. It happens after you've completed the inverted postures cycle. Now legs together. Stretch both arms behind your head. Inhale. Stretch your body. And exhale. Release the arms. Turning to one side, come and sit up. Let's practice the tortoise kasana. Bring the soles of your feet together, but keep the heels away from the body, not close to the body. Now slide your both arms underneath your calf muscle. Interlock your hands if possible in front of your toes. Drop your head slowly forward and down. Kasana, the tortoise. Very comforting introverting posture. Really calms the mind. Suits the nervous system. Allow the knees to fall to the sides. and relax the whole back. Very good. Slowly inhale. Come and sit up. Release the posture and then stretch your legs forward for the sitting forward bend. Pasta mutanasana. Legs are out in front of you. The toes are pointing towards the face. Heels are pushing forward. Both arms up. Inhale. Slowly exhale. Bend forward and bend down. Remember to flatten the back of your knees on the mat. It doesn't matter how far you're able to bend forward. Relax your shoulders. Relax your arms. Relax the neck. With each inhalation, feel the spine lengthen. With each exhalation, relax forward and down a little more. Each inherent, the spine lengthens. Each exhalation you relax a little more. Very good. Inhale slowly lengthening the body forward, the arms forward and up. And exhale, drop the arms down. Give yourself a counter stretch. Keep your hands on the floor behind you, fingers pointing backwards. Incline plane. Pokanasana. Inhale. Lift your hips up. Throw the hip back. Open the shoulders and chest. Breathe deeply and slowly exhale. Come down. Let's practice the pigeon kaputasana. Starting with the left leg. to bend your left leg underneath your right thigh. Stretch your right leg all the way back. Lie down on your left knee, left thigh. Stretching your arms forward. Relax your hips. Relax your back. Feel that wonderful nice stretch. And then as you're doing the cobra, bring your hands next to the shoulders. Inhale, lift your head up, shoulders up, chest up. Gently arch your body. You can take your hands further back. Come up on your fingertips. Bend your back leg. Hold your back leg with your right hand. The more seasoned and flexible practitioners can rotate their right hand pointing the elbow upwards. And then you can also try to hold right leg with both hands. Pigeon kaputasana. Slowly release this side. Shift your legs. Bring the right leg, the right knee forward. Stretch your left leg all the way back. Lie down on your right knee, right thigh. Stretching your arms forward. Keep your forehead on the floor. Please be free. Bring your hands next to the shoulders. Inhale. Lift your head up. Shoulders and chest up. Gently arch back. Taking your hands further back until you're on your fingertips. Then you bend your back leg and hold your back leg with your left hand. You can also rotate your shoulders to point your elbow upwards. And then finally hold the back leg with both hands. to slowly release the posture. Stretch the right leg also back. Lie down on your abdomen. Make a pillow with your hands. Turn your head to one side and relax. Big toes touching each other. Heels falling apart. You relax. [Music] Now, bjangasan, the cobra, hands next to the shoulders, legs together, heels together, forehead on the mat. Inhale, head up, shoulders up, chest up. Gently press with your hands and arch your back. Breathing deeply. Always turning your awareness and attention to good breathing. Conscious breathing. Hold it. And slowly exhale. Come down. Wonderful. Make a pillow with your hands. Turn your head to the opposite side. Big toes touching. He is falling apart. Relax. The locust shalahan. Slide your arms underneath your body. Elbows close together. Chin forward on the mat. the half position first. Deep breath in here. Lift your right leg up. Stretch your right leg back and up. Breathe in deeply. And slowly exhale. Right leg down. Inhale. The left leg up. Stretch the leg back and up. Breathe deeply. And and exhale down. One more time. Inhale the right leg up. Stretch the leg. Breathe. Exhale down. Inhale the left leg up. Breathing nicely. And exhale down. Adjust your arms. Bring your arms closer underneath the body if you can. Ready for the locust chalahasan. Inhale deeply. Lift both legs up. Breathe strongly. Don't hold the breath. Breathe on. Five. Breathe on four. Breathe on. Three. Two. Exhale. your legs down. Release your arms. Take a pillow with the hands. Turn your head to one side and relax. Big toes touching. Heels falling apart. Relax. Dhanurasan the bow. Bend your legs. Catch hold of your ankles. Forehead on the mat. Now deep breath. Inhale. Lift your head up. Shoulders up. Chest up. Knees and thighs up. Breathe deeply. Breathe long. Hold it. Hold it. Breathe in. Five. Breathe in. Four. On. Three. Two and slowly exhale. Come down. Release your arms. Make a pillow with the hands. Turn your head to one side. Big toes touching. Heels falling apart. Relax. [Music] Place your hands next to the shoulders. Stretch back into the child's pose. Relax for a moment. We'll do one more backward bend and then come and sit up and then come and stand up on your knees keeping your knees and feet shoulderwidth apart. Let's practice the camel pusha. Inhale lift both arms up. Rotate your shoulders. Right hand down on the right heel. Left hand down on the left heel. Dropping your head back. If you cannot hold the heel, then you can just support your back with your hands. Moving the hips forward as you breathe. Do not struggle. Do only what you can do comfortably. Camelasana. Three more breaths. Very good. Inhale. Slowly come back up. And immediately bringing the knees and feet together. Relax in child's pose. Shashankasana. Give your back a nice counter stretch. [Music] Now come and sit up and then sit to the left side of your heels. Let's practice gokasana. Bring the right foot. Come across and bring the right heel next to the left hip joint. Bring the left arm behind the back. The fingers pointing to the nape of the neck. Lift your right arm up. Bend your elbow and try to catch hold of your left hand at the back. Goasana. Keeping the back straight. Both the knees are one on top of the other. And slowly release the hands. Change the side. Switch the legs. Sit to the right side of your heels. Bring the left leg across the right knee. The left heel next to the right hip joint. This time the right hand behind your back. fingers pointing up, left arm up. Bend your elbow and interlock your fingers behind you if possible. You'll notice that maybe you have very stiff shoulders and it's extremely good to open up the shoulder area, the neck area. Try to keep the chin parallel to the floor. Neither pointing upwards nor downwards. Wonderful. Release the arms and then sit back on your heels. Let's practice the half spinal twist. Sit once more to the Right side in the heels. Bring the left leg over the right knee. Left hand on the floor behind your back. Right arm up. Inhale. Bend forward. As you exhale, wrap the arm around the knee. Catch the ankle and turn and look over the left shoulder. Sandraasana. The half spinal twist. See if you can twist a little more towards the left and slowly exhale. Release the posture. Try the other side. Bring the right leg over the left knee. Right hand on the floor behind your back. Left arm up. Inhale. Bend forward and exhale. Wrapping arm around the knee. Catch onto the ankle. Turn and look over the right shoulder. Breathing deep. With each inhalation, you feel the spine lengthen. [Music] With each exhalation, you can relax consciously and you then will be able to rotate the shoulder a little more towards the right. Slowly release. Come forward. Pull the knee into the chest. Hug the knee and straighten your back giving yourself a gentle counter stretch and you relax. Let's try the crow kakasana. Come into a squatting position. Hands on the floor, shoulder width apart. Knees on your upper arms. Come up on your toes. Lift your hips up. And then gently shift your weight forward until your feet come up. Casa. [Music] Wonderful. Slowly drop your feet down. Come and stand up. Let's try the tree. Another balancing pose. Brickasana. Let's start with the left leg. Take the weight of your body onto the right foot. Bend your left leg and keep your left foot inside the right thigh. Bring the palms together in front of the chest. And then slowly lift your arms up. Continue to breathe consciously. Oh, very good. Slowly bring the arms down. Drop your left leg down. Try the other side first. Get the grounding on both feet. Then bend your right foot. Place it inside the left thigh. Once more, bring the palms together. Lift your arms up. Breathe deep. Breathing long. and slowly release the arms. Bring the foot down. Let's do the standing forward bend. Padastasana. Feet together. Both arms up. Inhale. Slowly as you exhale, bend forward and bend down. [Music] Hold the posture comfortably. Try not to bend your knees. Breathing slow. Breathing long. Very good. Inhale. Stretch your arms forward. Lift your arms up. And exhale. Drop the arms down. Separate your legs a little bit. Support your lower back. Give yourself a counter stretch. Inhale. Hips forward. Gently arch back and exhale. Come on up. Take the length of the mat. Let's practice the warrior. The legs are at least 3 to 4 feet apart, maybe even slightly more. Turn your right toe towards the right side. Bend your right knee. Try and have the right thigh parallel to the floor. Stretch both arms to the sides. Remember not to turn your upper body. Now turn and look at the right hand. Viradhrasana. The warrior pose. Very good. Let's do the triangle from here. Simply bring the right forearm on the right thigh and stretch your left arm over the left ear. Holding the pose. A variation of triangle trionas. Good. Inhale. Slowly come back up. Drop the arms down. Turn your right toe forward. Left toe out. Bend your left knee. Bring the left thigh parallel to the floor. Stretch both arms to the sides. And then without turning the body, turn and look at the left hand. Hold and breathe. [Music] And then let's do the triangle. Bend the left arm. Place the left forearm on the left thigh. And stretch the right arm over the right ear. Feel a stretch all the way from the foot all the way through the side of the body. and the arms all the way up to the wrist. Breathing deeply. Very good. Inhale. Slowly come back up and drop the arms down. Bring the legs slightly closer. Maybe a little more than shoulderwidth apart. Let's finish with the 21st and last posture. Let's do the squat. Bend your knees. Come into a halfsitting half squatting position. Bring the elbows to press against the thighs and place the palms together in prayer position in front of the chest. And then you look forward. Inhale slowly come and stand up and then bring the feet together. Get ready for final relaxation. Come and lie down. Prepare for shavasana. Arms and legs comfortably apart. Give yourself a moment. Before beginning the systematic relaxation of different parts of the body, let's tense different parts. Bring the right leg one in off the floor. Tense it and drop. Left leg one in off the floor. Tense and drop. Both arms up one inch off the floor. Make a fist. Stretch your fingers wide and drop. Inhale. Gently lift your hips up. Squeeze the buttocks and drop. Inhale. Lift your chest up and exhale down. Inhale. Gently squeeze your shoulders in towards your ears and release. Inhale. Tighten your face. Squeeze your face and relax. Inhale. Open your eyes. Open your mouth. Stick your tongue out. And exhale. Close your mouth. Close your eyes. Shake out your shoulders. Gently turn your head from side to side. Bring the head back to the center. Make some final adjustments so that you can settle down in the most comfortable manner possible. Legs are apart. Arms are away from the body. Shavasana. Final relaxation. Relaxing the toes, feet and ankles. Relaxing the shins and calf muscles. Relaxing the knees and the thighs. Relax. Relaxing the hips, hip joints and buttocks. Relaxing the abdomen and the chest. relaxing the abdomen and the chest. Great. Relax. Relax the lower back, middle and upper back. Okay, relax. Relax the whole spine. Relaxing the fingers and the palms, forearms, elbows, and upper arms. Relax. Relax the shoulders and shoulder blades. relaxing the neck and the throat. Relax. relaxing the face, the chin, the jaws, the cheeks, the mouth, the nose, the eyes, and the forehead. Relax. Take your awareness deep within the body. Relax all the internal organs. Relax the lungs, the heart, and the brain. Relax. Finally relaxing the mind. Slow down the thoughts. Calm down the feelings. Relaxing the mind. Relax. Relax. [Music] Relax. [Music] Oh, [Music] [Music] Slowly, gently bring your awareness back to the present. Breathe a little more deeply. Gently wake up the body. Move your fingers. Move your toes. Move your hands and your feet. Slowly, gently draw the legs together. Stretch both arms over behind your head. Inhale. Stretch. Exhale. Release the arms. Turning to one side. Come into sit up. Let's finish the class with the final prayers. Oh. Oh. Oh. [Music] for [Music] shant. for [Music] [Music] Shant Shant Shant. [Music] Wonderful to have you in the class today. Thank you for joining.