Namaste. Namaste all of you. Slowly keep your palms to the side. Palms are chin mudra and relax your body slowly. Relax your legs, arms and stretch up your body. Slowly observe the breath sensations from toe to top of your head. Slowly move your palms close to the heart center. Observe your abdominal movements and chest movements in one long breathe in and out. Keep relaxing your breath base. Slowly let's start with the prayer. Do one chanting on your breath outs. First round breathe in. [Music] [Music] Shat [Music] they way. Sanjana [Music] Sanj open your eyes. Yes. Let's start loosening practice before we start the yogas. We'll loosen first on your neck. Lift your head up. Breathe in. Head down. Breathe out. Stretch your throat muscles nicely. Breathe in. Head up. Breathe out. Stretch your back neck. One more round. Slowly come to center. Move your chin to the one shoulder line. Breathe in. Come to center. And breathe out. Other side. One more round. Make it good. Slowly move your chin to the chest side and start rotating by focusing your chin. Breathe in when the head is in upper half circle. Breathe out. Head is in lower half circle. Slowly keep relaxing your all neck muscles area. Do the reverse direction. Mashik. Once you finish three rounds for the sides, come to center. Open your eyes and slowly twist release the hands to the side. Keep your palms in line with the shoulders bent. Rise your arms up. Breathe in and palms down. Breathe out. Breathe in. Breathe out. One more round. Exhale. And breathe out. Slowly keep your hands in front. Breathe in. Move your palms to the right side. Breathe in center. And move the other side. Breathe out. Breathe in. Breathe out. One more round. Mashik. Come to center and slowly drop the hands down. Stretch your arms to the side. palms facing up and slowly all your fingertips on your neck area, shoulder area. Slowly lift your elbows up. Stretch your body upwards and smooth. Breathe in and out. Breathe in actively here and slowly elbows down. Breathe out. Relax. Two more rounds. Breathing up. Breathe out. Slowly keep your elbows front. Breathe in. Open your elbows to the side. Chest open. Breathe out. Close. Breathe in to the side and breathe out close. Slowly elbows are facing up. Do the rotation smoothly by focus your elbows. Do stretch your elbows up and stretch the body. Breathe in and do breathe out down and close. Do the reverse direction. Breathing in up and close and down to the side. Breathe out. Take itself to your arms. Make it curve. Slowly release. Relax your upper body and slowly we loosening the leg joint. Start from the hip joints. Loosen slowly move your hips back and open your body. Breathe in up. Breathe out down. Slowly come up. Move your bend your body one side other side. Go for natural breathing and out. Come to center. Slowly start rotating your hips and other side. Come to center. Slowly loosen your knee joints. Hold your knees and slightly open up your kneecap should be pulling up. Just knee straight, legs straight. Breathe in here and breathe out slightly bent. One more round. Now we start doing rotation smoothly and do natural breathing out. Slowly come to center. Stand straight. Shake your legs. Slowly start loosening your ankle joints. Press the all the toe right toe fingers. Let's do the left side. Slowly shift your body energy from right to left and left to right. Now slowly start rotating your right foot. Do reverse the same leg. Magic hold. Go for the left leg. Rotate. Go side. Come to center. Shake your legs. Let's start the yoga poses. First we start the balancing poses. Tasana. Lock your palms. Interlock your fingers. And slowly start your lifting your palms facing up. Slowly, if you feel good, lift your heels up. [Music] Lock your eyes at one point and slowly create the space around your abdominal muscles. It helps to wash out your impurities from your large intestine and small intestine and also helps to increase the digestive system. Slowly drop the heels down and hands to the side and relax. We'll do the brookasana the tree pose. Start with the right leg. Slowly lift your right foot. Touch your right foot on your left thigh. Slowly balance your body on the left side. Keep your palms to the side. Slowly raise your arms. Lock your eyes at one point. Helps to strengthening your leg joints. Move your palms down and release. Go to the other side. Take the left foot and smoothly touching your right thigh. Slowly raise your arms up and helps to balance your energy on both the sides. Develop the memory power and increase the concentration. Slowly move your palms to the heart and relax. Shake your legs. Yes. Do the starting p standing posture. Slowly doana. Slowly bend your body back. Push your hips forward and open your chest. Do not strain your back. Do natural breathe in and out. Slowly bring back your body straight and release the stress on your head. This helps to increase the confidence. Slowly hold your waist slightly open up your hips and edges your root of your body by opening your knees. [Music] Once your legs are feeling strong, rise your arms up. Feel your whole body light. Slowly come up. Stand straight. We are going to do paradastasana by touching your palms on the ground. Breathe in, head up, and breathe out, head down. Keep opening your chest and activate your abdominal muscles. Keep releasing the stress on your back. If your back is paining, slightly open up your knees. Slowly head up. Release the hands. Rise your arms up smoothly. Palms to the heart. Namaskar. Namaskar. Slowly come forward. Take your right leg three steps back. Turn your body to the right side and stretch your arms in the shoulder line. Yes. Slowly start bending your body on the left side. Touch your left hand on the left ankle. [Music] Slowly move your right hip upward by adjusting your leg muscles. [Music] out helps to balance your sun energy and moon energy both the sides evenly. [Music] Slowly body up. Turn your feet to the right side. Stand your body on the right side and touch the right hand on the right. Make sure arms are in line with the shoulders. Open your chest. Helps to balance your legs. Slowly come up. Drop the hands down and release the right leg. Slowly close your eyes. Stand straight. Be in samastiti tarasana and observe the breath sensations in your body. Deep breath in and out. Slowly open your eyes and sit comfortably. Keep stretching your legs and toes together. Slowly move your palms to the side of your hips. Doasana. Start observing to lengthen up your spine by adjusting your arms. Notice the blood circulation and oxygen flow in your arms and legs. And try to coordinate both the legs and arms blood circulation. Do not drop the body weight on the palms. Your arms length is your spinal length. This helps to manage your all your nervous system and interlinks each other. Slowly relax. Keep your hands on your knees. Keep your feet mudra. Butterfly posture. Keep stretching your inner thighs. The butterfly posture, it helps to massage your abdominal organs and strengthening your whole spine. Notice the energy flow from the tailbone to top of your head when you relax in your legs and arms. develops the chakras activity and the connection. Slowly open your eyes, release the hands, stretch the legs one by one. Slowly adjust your hip joints and release the muscle tension on your lower spine. Slowly bend your right leg. We are doing vakarasana, the spinal twist. Raise your right hand up and drop the right hand back behind your hip and look it back over your right shoulder. Start lifting your lower spine and keep opening your chest and relax your neck and shoulder muscles. Slowly come forward and release the leg. We'll do the other side. Bend the left leg and left hand up. Slowly drop the left hand back. [Music] Look it back over your left shoulder and start activating your pancreas functioning. It helps to manage your glucose levels in your body. Slowly [Music] come front. Release the left leg and shake your leg. Those who are beginners just move your both the legs back and lift up your regular practitioner. Slowly fold the one leg and move your other leg to the other side. Slowly keep your palms chin mudra. Starting mudra facing down called ghana mudra. Adjust your arms and legs. Helps to kicks up your energy flow from tailbone to top of your head. Feel strong on your leg muscles and release the joints muscle tension on your legs. This is superb meditative posture. It activates your sense organs and notice the inner strength within you. Slowly open your eyes. Open your knees slightly and stand on your knees. We going to do camel pose. Hold your palms on your waist and slowly bend your body back. This is called half camel. Helps to increase your patience levels. If you be back strong, slowly go to the mayasa. Take your right hand on your right heel. Left hand on your left. If you're not able to hold this posture, just bring back to aravasana by taking the support on your back with your hands. Keeping your natural breathing in and out helps to control your energy. Otherwise, you can drain your energy quickly. Slowly come back and try to sit vajasa back and stretching your arms up. Cross your elbows. [Music] Touch your right hand on the left shoulder. Left hand on the right shoulder helps to release the stress on your arms and legs and increase the lungs capacity. It helps to manage your respiratory system naturally. Slowly come up. Keep your palms front and go to shashankasana. The chair goes touch your forehead on the ground. [Music] It's a superb grounding posture helps to increase your ground energy and let it be nature develops within you. Slowly come up. Stretch the legs one by one and lie down on your side. [Music] Keep doing by stretching your legs facing outward and keep your palms other and touch your forehead on the palms. for a home. This is the relaxation asa in macakarasana. Do proper makrasa by lifting your head up and take the elbow support. Keep your palms under your cheeks. Slowly adjust your back neck and release the body weight from the hands. Slowly drop the hands in front. Do Notice your breath sensations and notice the energy flow on your lumbar spine. After some breaths, you are activating your lumbar spine and regenerating your spinal vertebraes energy. Your upper body is light. Feel good on your lumbar spine. Slowly move your palms to the side of your chest. [Music] Slowly lift your head up. Close your eyes and focus your eye center. Keep your elbows close to your body. [Music] Cobra posture gujangasana helps to strengthening your whole spinal system, spinal cord. Get in ariti as a pose. Feel the sensations on your spinal nerves and keep relaxing your legs and arms on every smooth breathe in out. If not, please release the posture or drop the elbows down. Slowly drop the head down. Keep your hands to the side, palms facing up, and relax your body. [Music] Slowly our next posture we are going to do the salaphasana by strengthening your edge of your body by lifting your legs and head up smoothly from the ground. This helps to absorb the oxygen flow till the toes and keeps you relaxed on your root of your body grounded naturally. Your edges of your body is not feeling light. Please drop the body down and relax. Take deep breath in and out and come up. Next round slowly on your breath out. Drop the body down and take deep breath in and out. Slowly turn your body. Lie down on your back. Slowly bend your knees and keep your feet under your knees, palms to the side of your hips and palms facing down. We are going to do the bridge pose. Slowly lift your hips up. Start observing your breath sensation around your navl and control to overload your abdominal breathing and out. This is superb inverted posture helps to manage your thyroid gland and increase the thyroxine production. It releases the stress and anxiety by strengthening your neck muscles. Slowly drop the hips down. Rise your right leg up. Keep relaxing your back on the mat. If your upper spinal muscles and lower spine is properly fixing on the back, then join your left leg and keep your legs 90°. This is called utanasana. Helps to strengthening your core muscles. Keep activating your core muscles, not the lumbar spine, not the neck and shoulders. If you are not able to activate your core muscles, if your back is giving stress, keep doing one leg up. [Music] Once you feel strong here, slowly move your legs to 30°. Breathe in actively and relax your breathe out. Slowly bring your legs back 90° and hug your knees. Massage your back by moving your knees side to side. Release the muscle tension on your whole spine. Slowly hug your knees with tightly and give the pressure on your abdominal muscles. But on every breathe out dot ing your neck and chest area. Do smooth breatheins and give the pressure more on your abdomen on your breath outs. Release the excess gas from our body. Make your breath out smooth. It's a superb windreleasing posture. Helps to make our body in a natural process. The air impurities are going up towards the nostrils. The rest unwanted chemicals and unwanted fluids are pushing out towards the outlet. Slowly release the legs and feet under your knees. Switch your arms back over your head and palms together. Drop your knees one side on your right. Slowly start twisting your lumbar spine and understand your oxygen flow. Deep breathe in and out happens from now on. relaxation. Once you reach this posture and activate your breath smoothly, man is your oxygen flow and your glucose levels in a natural way. Slowly bring your knees to the up and go to the other side. Slowly bring your knees up. Stretch the right leg and left leg. And make sure legs are open in this shape. Keep your palms to the side, palms facing up and curl up your fingertips. Relax in savasana called amuttasana. Start observe the breath sensations in your body. Focus your breath from head to toe and toe to head. Every breath in and out, release the muscle tension on your legs and nose. Slowly conscious on your body parts and relax each and every body part while focusing your breath. Let's begin with the toes. Relax your feet. Relax your ankles and calf muscles. Lock your knees and release the muscle tension on your back of the knee joints. Relax your hamstrings and thighs. Deeply relax your hips and release the stress from hips to heels. Slowly move your focus on your abdominal movements. Expand your tummy as you breathe in. And slowly draw the belly in as you breathe out. Keep relaxing your abdominal breathing. [Music] Relax your chest. Breathe and adjust your lungs and relax your upper back. The hips slowly move your focus on your back from top to bottom. Entire back is relaxed. Relax your neck muscles and face. Relax your sensor bones and facial muscles. Relax your mind. Slowly move your focus on your heart center. Feel light on your whole body and slowly absorbs within yourself like a tiny drops absorbing on the ground. Shake it. Further slowly conscious on your body back. Move your toes and activates your leg energy. Move your fingers and activates your arms. Move your head side to side and increase your consciousness, body and mind. Slowly stretch your arms back over your head and legs to be closed. Slowly stretch your arms and legs outward and feel the long stretch from toes to tips. Breathe in. Hold your energy while stretching your arms and legs smoothly and relax your body. Relax. [Music] Slowly take the left hand support on the floor and lift up your body with light movement. [Music] Slowly roll back your shoulders. Sit on comfortable sucasana with chin mudra resting on your knees. Slowly start observing your breath from navl to nostril and keep adjusting your spine. Slowly start observing your energy flow from tailbone to top of your head and keep adjusting the back of the spine. Slowly open your eyes. Open your right hand and close the index and middle finger. Do the nasika mudra. With the nasika mudra we are doing nari pranayyama. Close your right nostril by using the thumb and start breathing left side. Again breathe in right side and do the breathe out left side. This is one round. Go for the second round. Breathe in left and breathe out right. Again breathe in right and do breathe out left. Do three more rounds on your own. It helps to cleansing your 72,000 nodies, the nerves in your body. Whole nervous system is purified and cleansed in one deep breathing and out. It helps to release the blockages in any noise. Once you finish, breathe out from left side. Relax. Now we are going to do the primary pranayama. Use your both the arms and use last three fingers touching the nose straight. Index finger on your eyebrow line and close your thumb point the ears and do chanting marara sound that is hummingb sound on your breath outs. do hear only your sound by closing your ears peacefully and on your breathe outs let's start [Music] [Music] [Music] Slowly [Music] keep Your palms close to the heart. Namaskar. And do the closing prayer. Santi. [Music] [Music] [Music] cheat. Oh, [Music] shanty shanty shanty. Slowly rub your palms. [Music] Keep your palms on your eyes and cheeks. Palms on your chest. Palms to the side and your back. Palms front and open your eyes. Look at your energy. Yeah, I got close the palms and slowly drop the palms and pray the mother lord and take the blessings. Slowly come up. Namaste.