Namaste. Namaste New York. Hi everyone. Good evening. Namaste UN. We're here at the UN in the North Lawn. A very very warm welcome to everyone and a warm welcome to those who are joining us via the webcast too because we have so many people who are watching and who are participating to celebrate World Yoga Day 2025. My name is Denise Scott and I'm the chair of the International Day of Yoga Committee at the United Nations. It is my honor to serve and to be your MC for this program this evening. It is such a beautiful evening and we're so fortunate that it hasn't been rained out the way we had so much rain yesterday. Wouldn't you agree that it's just such a lovely evening tonight? Yes. Yes. UN Yes. New York. Here we go. So, as most of you know, we're commemorating the 11th International Day of Yoga Day. And it's hard to believe that 10 years have already passed since the UN General Assembly adopted unanimously this resolution marking 21 June as World Yoga Day. This is a milestone indeed. Happy International Yoga Day everyone. Happy World Yoga Day. All right, we have a great crowd. How wonderful. Yoga enthusiasts. Yes, here we go. For those of you who don't know, what is remarkable about this resolution is that 175 countries co-sponsored it. This in itself demonstrates global unity from across the globe and the important local and regional support that this resolution and this initiative garnered in record time. This year's theme this evening is yoga for one earth, one health. And I think that it reflects the profound interdependence between individual well-being and at the same time our planetary health. An idea that is deeply embedded in India's civilization and its ethos. I'm sure that you will agree this philosophy is not new to us because thousands of years ago Indian scriptures expressed the hope that may all be free from disease. It is this timeless vision of health, harmony, and sustainability that continues to guide our approach. It's a very fitting topic, isn't it? The underlying values of yoga such as unity, respect, dignity, inclusion, and harmony certainly lead to more peaceful and prosperous societies. I'm privileged now to invite his excellency ambassador Parvatha Naeni Harish the permanent representative of India to the United Nations to deliver the opening remarks. Let us welcome the ambassador now. Namaste. Excellencies, distinguished ambassadors, colleagues from various missions, Dr. Deepak Chopra, USGR, yoga gurus, yoga practitioners, enthusiasts, ladies and gentlemen. It's indeed a deep honor for me to welcome you all on behalf of the permanent mission of India as we come together once again to celebrate the 11th international day of yoga. Indeed friends, I was just reminiscing with Dr. Chopna. What a blessing it is that after a week of rain today the skies are clear and we have wonderful sunshine. uh a great blessing as we celebrate the international day of yoga on the north lawns of the United Nations. This year, dear friends, marks a decade since the UN General Assembly at the initiative of honorable prime minister Modi adopted the resolution unanimously designating 21st of June as international day of yoga. Since 2015, the day of yoga has been an occasion that is observed around the world with great enthusiasm and fervor. June is a summer solstice, 21st of June, the longest day of the year in the northern hemisphere. It has a special significance in the yogic system. And as Prime Minister Modi noted in his address to the general assembly 10 years ago, yoga is an invaluable gift of our ancient tradition. Yoga embodies unity of mind and body, thought and action, restraint and fulfillment, harmony between man and nature, a holistic approach to health and well-being. It's not about exercise but to discover the sense of oneness with yourself, the world, and nature. Friends, this year's theme, yoga for one earth, one health is rooted in the one earth, one health approach introduced during India's G20 presidency in 2023. The theme underscores a vital truth that our personal wellness and planetary wellness are inseparably linked. In caring for ourselves, we begin to care for earth reflecting the enduring Indian ethos of vasuva kutumbukakam or the whole world is one family. This 11th edition of the day of yoga offers us an opportunity to reflect on how yoga has grown into a global force for well-being touching people across age groups, geographies, and walks of life. At a time when stress, lifestyle diseases, and mental health challenges are on the rise, yoga offers a steady, time-tested path that helps us find calm within ourselves and live more peacefully within ourselves and with those around us. Friends, we have a captivating program ahead of us. I wish you a happy and blissful yoga evening. Once again, welcome to all of you. Thank you, Ambassador. It's wonderful to be reminded of the words of Prime Minister Modi Gi and also to have the reference to Vasu Deva Kutumakum. It's so fitting that we're here on the north lawn seeing this big beautiful sky overlooking the East River. There's a rose garden also behind us where we can feel this connection to the earth and to these natural elements. Yoga joins us to them in a very special way. Yoga joins us to one another, each to each other and all of us to the greater web of life. For me and probably for many of you too being here with the sculpture of Gandhi G and it's in the direction where I'm pointing over there if you don't know it. It brings us into another dimension one where we can feel the underlying values of yoga such as unity, harmony and peace as I mentioned earlier. So now we move on to that part of the program that everybody is here and has been waiting for on this beautiful evening. Let us begin our common yoga protocol. So are you ready? Are you ready? All right. Okay, we're ready. So having everybody be ready, I am so delighted to invite Miss Racha Decay, a renowned yoga master from Art of Living. And she's going to be joined this evening by yoga demonstrators Miss Llan and Miss Ludmila Morozova. Let us now welcome Racha and her team. Thank you Denise. Happy International Yoga Day everyone. No in the words of my teacher Gurudev Shishi Ravi Shankr yoga is not just the physical exercises or asas. Yoga is a complete science. It is the unity between body, mind, spirit and the universe. So today as we do the yoga practice, let's do it with full awareness on the body, our breath, and the mind. Sounds good? All right, let's step into the world of yoga. So we'll begin today by chanting Om three times followed by a short invocation just from the heart setting an intention to bring harmony and unity in the world. I'm sure you'll agree with me that today more than ever before. It is so important that we all move together and bring peace and joy to everyone. Are you ready? Yes. All right, let's close the eyes. Take a deep breath in and breathe out. Another deep breath in for Rome. Oh. [Laughter] Oh. [Laughter] [Music] [Music] [Music] Let us all move together as one humanity. Let there be in harmony in our thoughts, speech, and action. When you're ready, you may open your eyes. So, first we'll do an energizing pranayyama called kapalabhhati. In kapalabhhati you take long inhalation and forceful exhalation with the contraction of the stomach. So I'll demonstrate and then we'll do it together. It'll be something like this. [Music] Okay. So inhalation through the nose and as you exhale little bit forceful breath out pulling your navl in. Let's do this together. Close the eyes. Let's take a transitional breath in. Breathe out for kapalabhhati. Breathe in. Out. In. Out. In. Out. In. Out. In. In. In. In. In. In. In. In, in, in, in, out. And relax. Palms on your lap, facing the sky, eyes closed. Just observing the sensations in the body. We'll do this again. Let's take another transitional breath in. Let go. For kapalabati, breathe in, out in, out, in, out, in, out, in, out, in, out, in, out, in, out. In, in, in, in, in, in, in. And relax. Just observe your body and your breath. We'll do one last round. Transitional breath in. Let go for kapalabati. Breathe in, out in, out in, out in, out in, out in, out in. In in in relax. When you're ready, you may open your eyes. Now, let's get up and get our bodies moving. Awesome. We'll start with some loosening exercises starting with our neck. So as you inhale, look up. Exhale, chin to the chest. Once again, inhale, look up, exhale, chin to the chest. This time as you inhale, start neck rotations to the right. Breathing in and breathing out left and down. Continue at your own pace, coordinating your breath with the movement. As you finish the circle, change directions. Breathing in to the left and back. Breathing out to the right and down. Continue. Complete the circle and come back to the center. Now bring your fingers to your shoulders. Both your elbows are coming close to each other. Inhale. Breathe in. Elbows go up. Exhale back and down. Very good. Continue. Feel your shoulder blades coming together. Feels good, right? One more time. Good. Now let's change the directions. Breathing in, back, and up. Breathing out, forward, and down. Neck and shoulders are the first place we accumulate the stress. Just feel all of that going away. Complete the circle and relax your arms. Now with your feet about hipwidth apart, lift your arms in front of you up to the shoulder level. Inhale. And as you exhale, twist to your right, bringing your right arm all the way back. Your left palm is close to your right shoulder. Inhale. We come back to the center. Exhale. Twist to the left. Giving a nice exercise to our spine. Inhale. Come back to the center. Exhale. Relax your arms. Now, let's just check our posture one time. Your feet are about hipwidth apart. Navl tucked in. Your tailbone is under your hip. Roll your shoulders and make sure your shoulders are relaxed. Chin parallel to the ground. Good. Now take both of your arms all the way up over your head. Interlace your fingers and turn your palm up. Breathing in, lengthening your back, lengthening your arms. Gently come onto your toes. Tarasan, palm tree posture. Very good. giving extra room to our spine. Inhale and as you exhale, bring your heels down. Relax your arms. Nice. Now, gently shift your weight to the left foot and grab hold of your right foot. Place it on your left inner thigh. Now, if this is difficult, you can also place the foot below your knee or next to your ankle. And then find a spot in front of you that is not moving. And keep your gaze steady. As you breathe in, lift your arms up, palms together, index fingers facing the sky, coming into rick shasana tree posture. And a big smile on your face. Very nice. Breathe in. As you breathe out, relax your arms. Relax your leg. Now we'll do the same on the other side. Take your left foot and place it on your right inner thigh. Very good. Steady your gaze. As you breathe in, lift your arms up. Index fingers pointing the sky. Breathe in. And as you breathe out, relax your shoulder. Very good. This asa brings balance in the body and focuses our mind. Very nice. Breathe in. As you breathe out, relax your arms. Relax your leg. Can shake your legs a little bit. Very nice. Now going back to the starting position. Check your feet navl tucked in. Breathing in. Lift your arms up all the way up. Palms are facing each other. As you breathe out, you bend forward, keeping your back straight. Very good. You can micro bend your knee and go all the way down wherever you can reach. You can place your palms flat on the ground. Hold your ankle or your calves. Now take a deep breath in here. As you breathe out, bring your chest close to the thighs. Hustadasan, hand to feet posture. Breathing in, place your palms on your waist and keeping your back straight. Slowly and gently you may come up. Awesome. Now staying here, take your palms and place them behind on your lower back supporting your back. See if you can bring your elbows tiny bit close to each other. Very nice. Now take a deep breath in. Expand your chest. Look up. As you breathe out, bend backwards from your lumbar as much as you can. Don't overstretch. Breathing in. Pull yourself up. Breathing out. Relax your arms. Good. Now, let's give some distance between our feet. Your feet are about 3 ft apart. Right foot is turned outwards 90°. Left foot is turned inwards about 15°. Make sure your hips are facing forward. Breathing in, lift your arms up to the shoulder level. As you breathe out, shift your upper body to the right. Take another deep breath in here. Breathing out, bend to your right, bringing your right palm just below your right knee. Both your arms are in one line. Make sure your pelvis is not tilting. Very good. Breathing in, lift yourself up. Breathing out, relax your arms. Now in yoga, whatever we do on one side, we do on the other. So this time your left foot is turned outward, right foot little bit inwards. Once again, check your hips are facing forward. Breathing in, lift your arms up. Breathing out, move your upper body to the left. Take a deep breath here. As you breathe out, bend to your right. Good. Check your hips. Whole body in one plane. Breathing in, pull yourself up. Breathing out, relax. How does it feel? Good. Right. You've already done so much hard work. We are going to relax a little bit. So feet are about shoulder width apart. Okay, back straight. As you breathe in, lift your arms up to the shoulder level. As you breathe out, push your hips back a little bit. And slowly, gradually, you're going to sit in your very comfortable and very imaginary chair. Very good. Go lower. Tiny bit more. You're strengthening all your thigh muscles and your knees. Very good. Go lower. Lower. Little bit more. And go all the way down. And let's sit comfortably here. So now here we're going to take a pause. We have a special treat for you. Denise will tell you all about it and then we'll come back and continue the ASA practice. Sounds good. [Applause] Thank you, Racha, for reminding us that yoga is so much more than just aasas. Thank you, Lalan and Ludmila. We appreciate you demonstrating. So next up we have a treat as Racha alluded to. It's an advanced yoga demonstration with music by yoga masters Miss Katie Abigail and Seahu Meta again from the art of living. Please join the stage everyone. You can relax more fully as you see the members from the Art of Living Foundation and let the vibrations of the music take you further inside to that place of peace. Please, let's give them a warm welcome as they begin. [Music] [Music] [Music] down. [Music] [Music] You [Music] Mary. [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Thank you. [Music] [Music] Thank you. Lou finger. [Music] Happy newling. [Music] [Applause] [Applause] Thanks to all of you for your willingness to demonstrate those advanced yoga asas. Thank you so much. What a remarkable team they are, aren't they? Let's give them another round of applause. and how they inspire us as we engage now in the second part of our collective yoga protocol. It will led be it will again be led by Rich Dne and the art of living team who was with us just before. So here we go once again joining us on stage. Thank you so much Racha and the team. All right, ready to start again our asa practice? All right, that was beautiful, wasn't it? Thank you. Let's close our eyes. Let's just take few deep breaths in and out. Becoming aware of your body. Becoming aware of your breath. Just observing long or short, smooth or shaky. Take another deep breath in. Breathe out. And bring attention to your mind. wherever it may be. Bringing it back to here and now. Let's take a deep breath in. Hold for as long as you can and breathe out. One more deep breath in. Let go. [Music] Gently you may open your eyes. All right. Now let's sit with our back straight. Spine is erect. Bring both of your feet the soles of your feet together. You can hold your toes with your hands. Breathe in. Lengthening your back. As you breathe out, see if you can bring your feet tiny bit closer to your paranium. Coming into badrasan, cobblers's pose. Let's take few deep breaths in and out here. Very good for our hips. Strengthening our thighs. Breathe in and breathing out. Relax. You may stretch your legs in front of you. Once again, sitting with our back straight. This time bend your right knee and place it right next to your left knee. Take your right palm and bring it behind you in the middle of your back. Place it there. Your left elbow can go either on your right knee and you can also wrap it around your right knee and see if you can touch your toes. Breathe in here. Lengthening your back. Breathing out. Twist and look behind. Coming into vakrasan, halfspinal twist. Breathing in, relax your arms. Breathing out, stretch your leg. Now let's do the same on the other side. Left foot next to your right knee. Take your right palm and place it behind you. Right elbow goes on your knee. Or you can grab hold of your right left toes. Breathe in. Lengthening your back. Breathe out. Twist. Look behind. All your abdominal organs. We're getting a nice massage here. Breathe in. Release your arms. Breathe out. Stretch your legs. Now fold your legs and let's sit on our heels. Place your buttocks on your heels, back straight. Coming into diamond posture. This is very good for digestions. You can sit in this posture after you've had a meal. From here, let's stand on our knees. Good. Now, take your palms and place them on your hips supporting your lower back. Now, once again, see if you can bring your elbows tiny bit closer to each other. Deep breath in. Expand your chest. Look up. And breathing out, bend backwards from your lumbar as much as you can. Do whatever your body allows. Breathing in, lift yourself up. Breathing out, relax your arms. And let's sit back on our heels. Now give a little bit more space in between your knees. Your knees are on touching the outside of your yoga mat. As you breathe in, you place your palms in between your knees. As you breathe out, walk your palms forward, stretching your arms all the way out, bringing your chest and chin to the ground, coming into sasakasana, wide knee, child pose. If you cannot touch your chest to the ground, that's okay. Do as much as you can. And just relaxing here. Feel the tension releasing from your back. Breathe in. Lift yourself up. Walk your palms back. Now let's slide our body forward and come onto our stomach. Very good. Your chin or forehead on the ground, palms are next to your shoulders, feet together. Engage your glutes and inner thighs. As you breathe in, lift your head and your chest above the ground. Coming into bjangasana, cobra posture. Very good. Strengthening our lower back here. Breathe in. As you breathe out, go back down. You can bring your arms next to the body. Now make a fist of your hands and place them under your pelvis. Your chin or forehead on the ground. As you breathe in, lift your feet about 6 in above the ground. Your toes are pointing away from the body. Coming into shalabasana, locus posture. Few breaths over here. One deep breath. And as you breathe out, bring your feet down. Release your hands. And slowly, gently, you may turn onto your back. Good. Now bend your knees and place your feet on the ground. Your feet are about shoulder width apart. Palms on the ground. The back of your heel is gently touching your middle finger. Now as you breathe in, lift your hips up in the air coming into bridge posture. If you wish, you can interlace your hands and go deeper into the asana. Make sure your knees are not falling apart. Breathe in. As you breathe out, release your hands. Stretch your legs. Now bend your knees and bring them closer to your chest. You can wrap your arms around your knees and bring them tiny bit closer. Take a deep breath here. As you breathe out, lift your head and chest and see if you can bring your nose in between your knees. Coming into pavan muktasana windrelease posture. Deep breath in. And as you breathe out, relax. Come out of the posture. Stretching your legs out. Once again, palms on the ground facing down. This time as you breathe in, lift both of your legs up in the air. The soles of your feet are facing the sky. If you wish, you can slide your palms and tuck them gently just by your hips supporting your lower back. Coming into your body in right angle. Deep breaths over here. Take a deep breath again. As you breathe out, as if you have all the time in the world, very, very slowly and gently, bring your legs to about 45° angle. Take a deep breath here. Breathe out and continue going down slowly, very slowly, all the way down. And relax. Your arms are by your side. Stretch legs stretched out. Chin tucked in a little bit. Relaxing in shavasana. Take a deep breath here. Breathe out. Gently become aware of the weight of your body. How muchever it is. Just become aware of it. And with the next breath out, gently place that entire weight on your yoga mat and relax more and more. Become aware of your feet. knees, your thighs and hips, both of your legs. Become aware of your abdomen and stomach, chest, both your arms, shoulders, neck and throat. your whole face and the top of your head. Become aware of the whole body. Deep breath in. Breathing out. Relax. Another deep breath in. Let go. Gently. You may turn to your right side and stay here for a few breaths. Breathe in one more time. Breathe out. And slowly you may come up to sit. Keeping your eyes closed. When you're ready, you may open your eyes. We'll end with a cooling pranayama called brahri. So what we'll do? Take your fingers. Place your index fingers on your eyelids. Your big finger on your nose. Ring finger above your lip and little finger below your lip. Then take your thumb and place it on this cartilage on your ear like this. Now what we'll do is we'll take a deep breath in and when we breathe out we'll make a sound like M like a B. And at the same time, you push this cartilage in and out. So you'll hear the vibrations. So let's do this together. Take a deep We'll do this three times. Okay? So let's take a deep breath in. [Music] Breathe in. Again. Breathe in. and relax. Palms on your lap, facing the sky, eyes closed. Just observing the body, breath, and the mind. Syuk [Music] to shanty shanty shanty. Once again bringing awareness to our body and surroundings. Gratitude to the yoga tradition, the practices we did today. Gratitude to all the yoga masters of past and present. Gratitude to your own teacher. Remembering our intention from the beginning of the practice. Sending happy thoughts and good vibrations into the universe. When you're ready, you may open your eyes. Namaste. [Applause] Thank you so much, Ria and team. Again, it's wonderful that you could make that reference to all our yoga masters and all of those people who have contributed to advancing the underlying values of yoga that we all here so dearly, dearly respect and cherish. For me, being up here and seeing everyone, including the little youngsters that we have, I can tell you how beautiful you all look. So tranquil, so gorgeous. It's like um an orchestrated dance really. And it feels so calm and peaceful. And I think that we all have this sense of tranquility right now. Which brings us to our final segment of the evening's program. So we will wind down with a guided meditation led by none other than Dr. Deepac Chopra. Yay. We have Dr. Deeppac Chopra in the house. How better does it get? While he needs no introduction, it's only fitting that I introduce him properly on this formal occasion. Dr. Chopra is a licensed medical doctor. He studied medicine in India before coming to the United States. He completed his residency in internal medicine and a fellowship in endocrinology. He met Maharishi Mahesh Yogi and became involved in transcendental meditation or as we know many people know it as TM. He is an expert in the field of mind body healing and speaks and writes and speaks and writes regularly. I don't know how he does it and he's so prolific. metaphysics, the study of consciousness, venant philosophy. He is the author of over 90 books. I think it's really 110 books. They've been translated into more than 43 languages. And I can go on and on and on. But without further ado, the moment is upon us. So, let's give a very, very warm welcome to tonight's special yoga master, Dr. Deepac Chopra. Deepac. [Applause] Thank you. Thank you ambassador honorable master. So how many people are in regular practice of meditation and how many are not? Okay. So what I'll do is I'll take you through some self inquiry which is in Sanskrit is called atma vijar. All you have to do is still your mind and then ask some questions. I'll lead you through that atma var self inquiry. You don't need to know the answers. Just the questions is enough. Then we'll do a little bit of vipasana which is these days called mindfulness which is a very awkward word but nevertheless we'll do a little vipasa and then we'll do a little bit of mantra and transcendence. So just be comfortable. Whatever posture suits you if you can keep your spine erect and the most important thing is be comfortable and then close keep your hands open and close your eyes and we'll begin with just observing the breath which is the original vipasa practice. I'll be making some comments because this is a guided meditation but usually it's done in silence but a lot of people here are new so I'll be speaking I'll try not to speak too much but let's see how it goes the first thing to recognize is that your breath is effortless Yes, we don't breathe. We are being breathed. We share the same breath. And because the breath is the exchange of molecules, we share the same body. And because the body is one with mind, we share the same mind. You can't hold on to your breath. If you do, you suffocate. And breath is a sensation. All experience is a sensation. We don't hold on to any experience. So now let go and let's flow through the whole experience just as the breath flows. Now bring your awareness to your heart in the middle of the chest and mentally ask yourself who am I? Don't try to answer it. Just ask the question. Notice any thought, any feeling, any emotion, any image, any sensation. And when you experience it, notice it and let it go. Who am I? Go a little deeper. Who is asking the question? What is it that wants to know the answer? Who am I? What am I? Go a little deeper. Am I the changing body or am I the consciousness, the awareness in which the body is a changing experience? Once again, don't try to answer it. See what comes up. Am I the changing body or am I the consciousness, the awareness in which the body is a changing experience? Allowing any sensation, any image, any feeling, any thought to arise and subside. And when it does, notice it. Let it go. Am I the changing body or am I the consciousness which the body is a changing experience? Who am I? Am I the changing mind or am I the consciousness in which the changing mind is an experience? Am I the changing mind or am I the consciousness, the awareness in which the mind arises and subsides just like the breath? Who am I? Am I the body? Am I the mind? Or am I the consciousness in which the body and the mind arise and subside like the breath? Now let's go to the second inquiry. What do I want? What is my deepest desire? What do I want for myself and the world? What is my deepest desire? Again, don't try to answer it. Allow any sensation, any image, any feeling, any thought to come and to go. What is my deepest desire? What is my deepest desire? What is my deepest desire? Third reflection. What is my purpose? How can I serve? What is my purpose? How can I serve? Allowing any sensation, any image, any feeling, any thought to arise and subside. How can I serve? What is my purpose? Fourth and final inquiry for today. What am I grateful for? Not withstanding all the problems in the world, all the challenges, all the stresses, what am I grateful for? Once again, allowing any sensation, any feeling, any image, any thought to come to you, to arise and subside. Gratitude opens the door to generosity of spirit, abundance, abundance consciousness, generosity of spirit. What am I grateful for? Okay, that was atma and now we go into a little vipasana. So become aware of sound. The sound of my voice, sound of these birds, sound of traffic, sound of horns, all the sounds, the symphony of sounds that we call New York City. Be aware of sound. Gently remind yourself now I'm the awareness in which Sounds arise and subside just like the breath. I'm the awareness in which sounds come and go. Now turn your attention to sensation. The sensation of this wonderful breeze touching your skin. The sensation of your body touching your clothes. Sensations in your body. Feel the sensations in your body. Sensations in the abdomen. Sensation of lungs. Sensation of heart. Notice sensations come and go. They arise. They're experienced and they're gone. Gently remind yourself, I'm the consciousness, the awareness in which sensations arise and subside. Now move your awareness to images. So I'll guide you. Create the image any image that comes to you of New York City. Generate the image of a full moon and a starlitten sky. Generate the image of lofty snowclad mountains. A rainbow a forest, a waterfall. Notice images flicker in and out. They arise, they're there, then they're gone. Remind yourself I am the awareness in which images arise and subside. In your awareness, think of what you would like to eat tonight for dinner. Look at that food. Smell it. Taste it. Feel the sensation as you chew it. And feel the satisfaction as you swallow the food. And now let's move your awareness outside the boundaries of your skin. So let your awareness engulf this sacred place where all nations unite or trying to unite. Let your awareness engulf this space and then expand it. Let your awareness engulf the whole city of New York. expand it. Let it engulf the United States, North and South America, India and Asia. Let your awareness engulf the whole planet, spinning at dizzying speeds and hurtling through space. Keep expanding your awareness. It engulfves the solar system, the Milky Way galaxy. Keep expanding it. Two trillion galaxies, 76 stars, uncountable trillions of planets. Keep expanding your awareness till it engulfves the universe. And gently remind yourself I am the awareness in which the whole universe is arising and subsiding as my own sensations, perceptions, images, feelings and thoughts. I am the awareness in which the whole universe recycles and evolves. And now let all that go. And just repeat your name a few times to yourself. And as you repeat your name to yourself, just remind yourself. I am Deepak. I am Jane. I am Tom. Now remind yourself that's my name. That's not who I am. So drop your name and just repeat I am with no name, no history, no imagination, just I am. And now replace I am with the mantra aham. Aham. Aham is the vibration of the awareness of existence. So without moving your lips or your tongue. Ah I will let you do that without disturbing you and then we'll go a little further. Ah, Finally release the mantra. What's left? Consciousness awareness. So now rest in your own presence. Rest in your own presence. Consciousness is presence. Being atman. Brahman. Consciousness has no shape, no form, no form, no borders. Infinite, spaceless, timeless, irreducible, fundamental, has no age, is not in time, and it is who you are. The great upnads declare fire cannot burn it. Wind cannot dry it. Water cannot wet it. Weapons cannot shatter it. It is ancient. It is unborn and not subject to death. It is our own being. So rest in your own being. Be aware of being aware. Being aware of being aware is selfaware. Imperceable. inconceivable. And yet without it, no perception, no conception, ageless, timeless, unborn. Rest in yourself, in your presence. Finally, relax into your body. Relax into your body. And take a few seconds before you open your eyes. As has been said many times before, God's language is silence. Everything else is poor translation. Even the guided meditation, poor translation. Thank you. [Applause] Thank you, Deepac, for being with us this evening. This was such a treat. But at the same time, I know that we've all felt that he's brought us into another dimension, into a deeper dimension of our own sense of connection to ourselves, to something greater, to each other, and to the natural world. and bringing in those values of gratitude and generosity for another remarkable World Yoga Day observance here on the North Lawn at the UN headquarters in New York. Friends, please remember to collect goodie bags on your way out that we've arranged for you with a little something to eat. If you'd like to take your yoga mat, please do so. It's yours to bring home. If you'd like a t-shirt, and you haven't received one yet, by the East River, you'll find those. We appreciate your presence tonight and your kind cooperation in making this a memorable yoga day here at the UN. As we come to a close for yoga day 2025, once again I would like to ask a very warm welcome to his excellency the ambassador of the permanent representative of India to the United Nations Parvata Naneni Harish so that he can deliver the closing remarks and vote of thanks. Thank you so much for being with us today. [Applause] What a blessing it is for all of us to have spent the last one and a half hours I think completely lost, mesmerized and I think uh rejuvenated for one more year. Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I express my deep appreciation to all of you for joining us this evening for the international day of yoga. This is where the idea took place that we should have an international day and it is most fitting even as we celebrate the international day of yoga in every corner of the globe. It is very very special to celebrate it here at the UN headquarters in the north lawns. This unity, balance, well-being that we feel here is something that will last us and will take us for the next year. I take this opportunity to extend my sincere thanks to all those who have contributed to the success of today's event. Uh at the outset, I want to thank the art of living team for their excellent contribution presenting the common yoga protocol and the advanced yoga demonstration. Special thanks to Dr. Deepak Choprada. You have made this day of yoga very very special. I think seamlessly you have put some very thoughtful questions for us to focus on as we delve deep into who we are, what we want, why are we here and uh the inspiring guided meditation session, the vipasana session was extremely extremely free flowing, effortless and took us deep into our meditation. I want to express our gratitude to the our sponsors state bank of India and Bharat Electronics Limited for their generous support for today's event for making possible um all the facilities that we have here today and I also especially want to thank Miss Dennis Cotto for skillfully anchoring the program and the UN department of operational support and the UN secretariat for their support in organizing today's event. We look forward to continued collaboration and spreading the message of yoga for global well-being. Ladies and gentlemen, keep doing yoga every day. May you be happy. May you be healthy. See you again next year. Thank you. Namaste. [Music]