Hello Swamiji, my name is Jwalin. My question relates to
Swami Vivekananda's theory of Karma Yoga
as a way to achieve enlightenment. Personally, I'm having trouble connecting
that with what's discussed here in the talks
with the knowledge of Brahman and Atman. I don't understand how that realization
can come from something like Karma Yoga or Bhakti Yoga,
which seems much more dualist. Yes, the reason you are having difficulty
in relating that to what we are talking here
is because we are not talking about it. We are talking about Gyan Yoga
or Advaita Vedanta, which is primarily what I talk about here. That's why you're finding
it difficult to relate. What's the relationship? First, I'll tell you
about the relationship between karma and knowledge
in the classical Advaita framework. The classical Advaita framework is karma,
action in the world, is very important for generating knowledge. It helps us,
but only in a secondary sense. It will not directly lead to
enlightenment. That was the position
of Shankara and all his followers. It will not directly lead to
enlightenment. What it can do is purify our minds. When we pursue karma in the worldly sense,
I'm doing something to get something. Then it just conditions the mind
with desire and lack of fulfillment. We want more and more and we try in
different ways to become fulfilled here. Whereas, if we do the same karma
as a spiritual practice, not for I, me, myself, but whatever work I'm doing in
the office, in your job, in your career, at home, and more importantly,
the work which I selflessly do for others without wanting anything back. All of that is karma yoga. You do it in a spirit of dedication
to God or Ishwara, Bhagawan. That purifies the mind. How does it do so? The greatest impurity is selfishness. Selfishness is that
which binds us to this body mind. Advaita is interested in that. See, all the discussions we are having
is identification with this body mind, identification with the vritti jnana,
with the individual, with the moonlight. So that identification is strengthened by
the more selfish action we keep on doing, lifetime after lifetime. The more we feel, I am this one
and I have individual projects to attain. Whereas selfless action begins to purify
the mind and you begin to see that you are not really
this little I, me, mine. You already are not. Then jnana yoga, it takes hold. In an impure, deeply selfish,
identified with body mind, the knowledge of Brahman does not take hold. In Hindi they say,
baithta nahi hai, doesn't sit well. If all our thinking in our daily life
is I, me, mine and then once in a while I read I am Brahman,
it won't make much sense. If I purify the mind, I begin to see that,
oh, this I, me, mine is sort of childish. This body and the other bodies,
other people, they are all the same basically. We are all one being
or at least one consciousness. Consciousness in
and through various bodies and mind. This much feeling also will become more
and more real and more and more obvious. Then the understanding I am Brahman
will become very clear to us. So it is very helpful. Karma yoga is very helpful. Jnana yoga
takes a rather dim view of karma itself. Not only karma, any kind of practice. There's a beautiful verse
in the Ashtavakra which says, &&& people do not know themselves
as this pure being. Pure being
means beyond karma, good and bad. They do not know themselves as,
this is shuddham, buddham, they do not know themselves
as this limitless consciousness, witness consciousness. Priyam, they do not know themselves
as the source of all fulfillment and happiness. That's why we are running around. You are a billionaire,
basically, running around with a hat in hand
for a little handout from the world. You are a billionaire. You don't need anything from the world. Nisargadatta Maharaj
was a non-dualist in Mumbai. He says, this world, actually his words
were, this very sense of being or presence which I have now,
even this also I have no use for. We say, I am not the body, not the mind,
pure consciousness, pure awareness. This pure consciousness, pure awareness
is also mediated through the mind. He says, even this I have no use for. Even before you say, I am,
I am the witness, you are. Even before you say that
you don't need to say it. So, this is Priyam,
I don't need anything from outside. Anyway, then it goes on to say,
Purnam, it is complete in itself. It's not that there is
one pure consciousness and there is a world
from which it needs to draw sustenance. No, world is an appearance. It's not ultimately real. So next word,
Nishprapancham, it's free of this. Prapancham means this worldly display
made of five elements. Physical world, mental world,
it's free of all of that. And Niramayam, free of,
therefore, free of all suffering. Old age, body, disease, body and prana,
hunger and thirst, hunger and thirst, prana. Frustration, unhappiness, mind, manas,
ignorance, confusion, buddhi, intellect. But pure consciousness
is free of all of them. It's a witness to all of them. Their presence, arrival
and disappearance and coming back again. So, you are the witness consciousness
and free of, Niramayam, free of all disease, of all ailments,
of all suffering, of all negativities, of all impurity. You have no problem at all. You realise that and you stay with it. Those who do not know it,
Atmanam tam na jananti. Those who do not know this
as their own self. They don't know themselves
as this, what we are talking about. What do they become? Tatra Abhyasa Parojana. They become dedicated to practice. What does that practice mean? It means everything
that you do in this world. You are out to make a million bucks
on Wall Street, that's practice. You think that will lead to fulfilment. It won't. But it's good to go through
that experience. What will happen? If you don't make
a million bucks, you will be frustrated. If you make a million bucks,
you will be dissatisfied. Only two things. Only two possibilities. But it's good to learn this. It's good to go through that and learn it. Alright, so I don't want a million bucks. I am going to give it all up and go to
Columbia University or NYU and get a PhD. I am dedicated to knowledge. Try that. That's also practice. That's dry knowledge. Iris Murdoch, the great British novelist,
she was a philosopher before that. Was she Irish? So, she was
a well-trained analytic philosopher. I think in Cambridge or Oxford somewhere. But she gave it up because she said
I can do better philosophy in writing novels
than I can do at Cambridge University. So, I give up knowledge. I have a pursuit of knowledge for art. Try it. Abhyaasapara. It's sacrilege to say
these things in Manhattan. We have got
the museum mile on the east side there. The whole place is dedicated to art. That's the religion of the 20th century. The whole idea was we can replace God. We are going to throw God out
and replace God with art. Replace God with social causes. Something of the other. What happened? None of them worked. They are not good replacements. God for all his faults, old karmajan
that he is, but he is bigger than all of this. That's what we are, the late 20th century
and early 21st century is dedicated to rediscovering this. So Abhyaasapara. Then we give it all up. Alright, so I have come to my senses. Now I am going to be
a spiritual practitioner. Karma, Karma Yoga, meditation,
Dhyana Yoga, devotion, Bhakti Yoga and Vedanta. Shravana Mana and Nididhyasana. Right? Ashtavakra says no. You are still Abhyaasapara.  You are still practicing. Because you don't know what you are. The moment you know what you are,
you will throw the whole lot into the trash heap. Not actually. It is very subtle.You Internally you don't have
any need of these things anymore. Because what
you have discovered ultimately by your spiritual practice, what
you discover is that it is already naturally yours. It is not
dependent on spiritual practices. It is not
even dependent on Vedantic teachings. In fact, a stage comes when you will see
the final obstruction are these words. You have found it
and then you keep hearing the Swami said it is pure consciousness, I am Atman,
I am Brahman, I am the witness. And you will find
these words itself are the last hurdle. Let go. People make a mistake
that at least we have to hold on to this teaching.&&& Right? I let go of everything else. I have to hold on to Vedanta. Only as long as we are in ignorance. When you are enlightened
you have to let go of Vedanta. Upanishads say thathra Veda Vedaa bhavanthi 
Vedas are no Vedas at all. So, once you have discovered that,
you let it go earlier at your own peril. It is the pole vaulter who races along
and then vaults up to the highest height he or she can. And then the pole vaulter
has to let go of the pole. He says no it has taken me
so far, I am dependent on it. No let go. Then only you can go over the barrier
you can cross over into enlightenment and freedom. Oh, I let go. So, when I am running around, let go. Ok let go. I don't want it. The master told me that is
the most advanced practice to let go. Well then also you are in trouble. So, this is the traditional idea about
Karma Yoga that it is the part of the pole vaulter, the pole
that includes many other things also. Devotional practices,
anarchist basis, ethics. All of these are
the pole which will catapult you. And the final thing is the Vedantic. The innermost practices are the Vedantic. Hearing, reasoning, meditation. Now Swami Vivekananda, he says to 
Swami Turiyananda, who was also there. Vivekananda and Turiyananda were both
here. Not in this building but both in
the Vedanta Society of New York at one time. He says to Turiyananda in India, he says,
Hari Bhai, used to call him Bhaya, brother. Brother in this age
I have made a new path. As in
old days of old, young men and women. As in days of old there was meditation
and prayer and philosophical inquiry. In the days to come
there will be young men and women. He specifically mentions women. Young men and women, I see
them working out their way to salvation through karma. Through the path of service. So that's an entirely different yoga. I am not going to go into that. The paradigm is different there. The problem
is this selfish clinging to personality. And the solution
is a direct attack on that selfishness. And classical Advaita would say, yeah, that's great but finally, you have to come
and Upanishads and you have to come to Vedanta class. Swami Vivekananda says, not necessarily. Your real nature is already there. Remove the veil
of selfishness and what else remains? It should very easily shine forth. You don't have to put much effort into it. In fact, the other way around,
those who have not put effort into karma yoga And they rush into Jnana Yoga,
because I want the best. It's like they are letting go
of the pole or not using the pole at all. Then your jump falls far short of the... I highly recommend Karma Yoga. The little book,
Swami Vivekananda, that book. What's his name? JD Salinger, the novelist. He writes, these two little classics,
Karma Yoga and Raja Yoga About Vivekananda's two books. These two little classics
our American youth would do well to carry around
in their pockets. This was in the 1960s I think. Alright, thank you.