Hold it thigh tighter and relax. Back and shoulders compliment your handle joint. If not, keep the palms on the ground. Palms facing toward the sky body. If you are aware anything, you are not. I'm a yoga and meditation instructor from Ananda Marga based in Flashing, New York. But we're down here celebrating with the people here at in Washington DC. Yeah. Talk about yoga spreading, you know, worldwide and ever since uh India declared and the UN declared a yoga day. Uh how is yoga really picked up and how popular is yoga in the United States? Yeah, so yoga is widely popular already. Of course, we would like to see we would like to bring yoga to every household around the world because it has so much benefit. It's a universal practice to been recognized around the world and uh the deeper aspects of yoga are perhaps not so much known yet. So I think we are here to spread awareness of the original purpose of yoga to actually attain a sense of freedom or oneness uh with the universe. So that's a deeper aspect of yoga that's very much related to meditation. And then the yoga postures which are known as yoga asas are part of of the practice part of a holistic system to support the mind to attain freedom from uh unpleasant feeling and emotions and thoughts to feel relaxed peaceful deeply peaceful and then to make the body healthy. So we promote yoga to as a way to balance your glandular system and meditation to attain freedom and peace of mind. I want to congratulate uh Prime Minister Modi for starting this 11 years ago and I like today's topic being one earth one health and as a physician I believe in health and yoga is as essential as breathing air and taking medication. Yoga helps decrease anxiety, improves depression and for children it helps with attention span, concentration, ability to focus on task and ability to complete the task. So children do not require any medication like aderall and also mother earth. I like that topic because I want to save this mother earth because I'm sending raj yoga vibration to each and every human souls and each and every living being. So with this vibration they become peaceful, loving, caring. So we have a harmonious mother earth. So we prevent all these natural calamities. Om shanti. The whole practice is with closed eyes. We are going for no sudden movement. Sudden movement may cause injury. We are trying to