As the sun rose today, millions of people rolled out their mats to mark 11th International Yoga Day. Right now we are present at Atalpat in Mad Pradesh's capital Bhopal. And you can see that Dr. CM moan Yadhav and also all the people from Bhopal, different citizens uh children uh and people from every age group are performing yoga. It's the 11th International Day of Yoga and this year's theme is yoga for one earth and one health. From city parks to rural areas, from skies to water, everywhere people are performing yoga today as the ancient Indian practice once again transcend borders, languages and ideologies to spotlight the cilance in a post-pandemic environmentally fragile world. You can see the centerpiece of global celebration was unfolded in Vishakapatam where Prime Minister Narendra Modi led a mass yoga session at the Arab beach alongside with thousands of participants. Also in this address, PM Modi emphasized the role of yoga in fostering both personal balance and planetary responsibility echoing the core message of his uh this year's theme. Also, CM Dr. Moan Yadav emphasized how yoga is very necessary for mental health well-being and apart from that from the phys for the physical well-being also in Madhya Pradesh as you can see state officials school children and citizens are gathered from different areas from different cities and also the common yoga protocol is being performed here you can see we have Bopal police commissioner Harinaran Sharim Mishra and all the administrative official officials who are performing yoga all along with Dr. CM moan yadav and different yoga asas are also performed. Now if I tell you the history of the international yoga day in 2015 uh international yoga day uh India's historic proposal at United Nations General Assembly Yoga Day has evolved from symbolic gatherings into a powerful movement promoting mental well-being, preventive health and environmental mindfulness and also apart from that this year it gained further traction with the yoga bundan project linking yoga institutions globally for collaborative research and practice. is also as the mats are rolled back and the arsenas uh people are doing the message to the world is that with this in in in between a struggling burnout conflict and a climate crisis yoga offers not just personal sanctuary but a universal solution which is one uh earth one health and one practice. You can see from all over uh the Bhopal uh city uh if we talk about women, if we talk about children, we talk about all the people who are doing yoga since years and they are performing yoga with CM Dr. Moan Yadav. As PM said that yoga gives us the direction of peace. There are events held at 1,300 location AC across 191 countries and only if we tell about the locations around one lakh locations yoga programs are being held from skies to the waters from every uh state everyone is performing yoga today to mark the international yoga day today and you can see how much people uh uh are dedicatedly performing yoga as it also marks that yoga is for peace, yoga is for mental well-being and also after performing yoga we can see clearly that people say that this practice is necessary uh not just for today to mark the international yoga day but also this practice is necessary uh on daily basis to uh to uh to have a very good health and to have a better mental well-being with camera person Amish from Hopalani Jooshi for India today.