Namaskarum. So today is a special day. So what is so special about today? Today is the international yoga day. The 11th international yoga day. Now every year okay we have a special theme for the yoga day. 11 years back our respected prime minister Sri Narendra Modi started this I would say revolution revolution of health as a gift to the whole world. Everybody has had been practicing a lot of people have been practicing yoga for so many years before that. Okay. But you know the yoga which the whole world was practicing was a bit adulterated. So to bring the essence of real yoga the the essence of real yoga. 11 years back our respected prime minister started this revolution started with the international yoga day. Every year June 21st we celebrate the international yoga day. Okay. And every year you have got a theme right and most of the themes were you know around health how how how we can improve our health. This year's theme is slightly different and important. This year's theme is about earth and health. One earth, one health, right? One earth, one health. So why is earth important? And how is earth and health connected? So you look at years back, thousands of years back in our culture, in the Indian culture, how we used to live. So we wake up first thing in the morning, Brahma mhorta preferably. Okay. Go to the village pool. Nice cool water. Jump into the pool. Have a bath. You know that is how you start the day. Pool, natural pool. Okay. To take a bath, right? You go and jump into the natural pool. Feel fresh after that. Get some sunlight. You do Surya Namaskar under a banyan tree. Probably most likely it is under a banyan tree. You go to the temple. Okay. You do some meditation. Okay. And then you start your day. So in those days we were already close to the nature. Okay. you know olden days we were extremely close to the nature and people who were doing that okay lazy guys were there that time also I'm not saying that everybody used to do that but a lot of people used to do that and whoever was doing that was extremely healthy not only healthy they were brilliant they were intelligent Okay, they used to be creators. So a lot of benefits for that and they never used to have any diseases. They never used to have any diseases. They were extremely healthy. Right? This is how you start your day. Right? And then those days you didn't have all these GMO based grains, genetically modified grains. You didn't have, you know, hormonal injections to, you know, all kinds of feed. So everything is these days fertilizers uh you know the produce you're having is all the kind of uh hormones which you are using right whatever you're ingesting is these days full of hormones. Those days it was more organic. Those days it was more organic. These days the food forget organic it is being adulterated also. You can't even buy mangoes. Okay. As you go buy mangoes that is also adulterated. You buy apples that is also adulterated. Right? So everything is adulterated these days. Right? So now what we have found is that the environment is being spoiled right environment is being spoiled by industrialization. You know if you go to Delhi my god you get out of the airplane you feel suffocated right. So I land in Delhi from Kerala. I get out of the flight into the airport and then outside. I get a whiff of something toxic. I get used to it maybe after 2 days but the moment you land you know you feel that difference. You they feel that difference in the air. Some people are going and staying in rushes. So the whiff of toxic air that hits you. The whiff of toxic air hits you. And the food. Okay. Most of the food. I don't know how many times I've got bad stomach upset and all that because of the food you have from outside. Especially from the hotels everything is under treated right these days you know um couple of days back mom was cooking something she had put um coconut no sorry uh tomato sauce okay so I normally don't have these sauces and all that stuff she put that food was very tasty I said, "Oh, okay. What was that?" "Oh, I did some trick." "Okay, no problem." Okay. Like half an hour later, my stomach is going. No, there's something wrong with my stomach. Then I went and asked her again, "What did you?" I put lots of tomato sauce. Then I said, "Please, next time don't do it. Next time don't do that. I'm so used to having organic food or you know that is when you're so used to eating healthy stuff and then you go and have all this naturally you know you you feel it you feel it in your body. You naturally feel it in your body. So at home if you have you know you have got fruits you have got vegetables everything is organic everything is made of to so this year's theme is extremely important when it comes to environment earth right earth is an important part of your health earth is an important part of your health your environment is an important part of your Right? The air you breathe in, the food you eat, right? You can be a yogi, you can do yoga from morning till evening. But you know if the food you eat is junk, adulterated. Okay. These days you get vegan food. Very good food. Vegan. Vegan. Vegan. My god, it's highly processed and extremely bad, right? Highly processed and extremely bad. So this forget about all these marketing labels and marketing campaigns around these extremely processed food, right? Try to go organic as much as possible. Okay? Try to keep your environment as nonpolluted as possible. All of us have a say in this. All of us have a say in this. Okay? We don't go and litter places, right? Even let's say when you're doing yoga. Okay. So, let's say you're doing yoga. You can do yoga in the room in an air conditioned environment. Okay. Yeah. you're doing yoga but try and do yoga in the garden not in Delhi sorry okay in Kerala is very good okay in the garden first thing in the morning that is if you do yoga before you doing yoga you have a nice you know cool water bath Do yoga, get some sunlight and then you feel the difference. Doing yoga in an air conditioned room. Okay. Doing yoga outside, getting that morning sunlight, fresh air in the garden. Okay. Doing yoga with your shoes on. Doing yoga without your shoes in the garden on the grass, right? Huge difference. Huge difference. And that is why I know people like Rishies, right? Rishies is the yoga capital. Kerala is also good. You don't have to be in Kerala is Kerala is also good to practice yoga unadulterated unpolluted environments. The food is also the same. Right? The food whether it is rishes also it is adulterated. That is another thing that you have to be very careful whether it is Kerala. Kerala is worst when it comes to food when it comes to food adulteration. Kerala is worst. I wouldn't say worst but it is bad. Whole of India I would say is bad. Right? Adulteration of food is bad in India. So these are things which our prime minister has understood and he wants to make a change. He wants to make a change and all of us have to be supportive of this and start from today right. How we can enhance our environment? How we can enhance the quality of food? If the environment is better, if the quality of food is better, we don't have to have so many hospitals. We don't have to have so much of you know medicines. We literally don't have to have any medicines. Right? So when I say that I have seen a doctor for 30 plus years, right? It is because of imbuing our culture. Okay? integrating thousands of years old you know Indian culture into our system into our life right it is not rocket science it used to be practiced by our ancestors so you know if you're doing that then you don't have to see doctors don't have to take medicines this is the most important Important message for today.