uh presentation and maybe would you dare some questions to present to Kaspars. No courage is big enough. But I hope that this confluential philosophy will somehow enrich our um developing uh conversation about uh not to be in the old 19th century romantic moods but really to dare to be analytical and more uh sharp minded even with with the knowledge of our souls. And I hope that we are we will have more surprise from our dear guest Rajananda and uh I hope that you will enlighten us with some intrigued and and valuable thoughts. Thank you. The floor is yours. Let us close our eyes for a moment. Let us be relaxed. Let our breath be rhythmic. Let our mind be peaceful. Let our heart be open. Let our life bloom like the flower in spring. I bow to God. I bow to all the masters of all times and all places. I bow to my beloved Gurudv. I bow to all of you and the entire creation. Good afternoon. Today is 19th June 2025. We are going towards the longest day and the shortest night in northern hemisphere. The opposite in south day means light. Day means warmness. Day means activities. Day is the door to prosperity and progress. I don't know why 21st June was declared at the international day of yoga. In the yogic language, north is the upper part of the map, the globe is north. The upper part of the body is north. Maximum sunlight or the daylight. The highest 21st June they call summer solstice. Let there be more light, love and dynamism. in our head, heart and hands on the occasion of International Day of Yoga at the University of Latvia with The joint collaboration of International Center of Indic Studies and Latrian Kria Yoga Association. Today's event we had beautiful scholarly discussions by eminent professors with their deep insight discussing comparing And as we heard from our last speaker, Professor Kaspas, he told the confluence human mind and heart should converge and have the confluence in The right attitude of understanding, from comparison to confluence, from diversity to unity and amity. During this special days and also special event in this university, I feel myself blessed to be present in this beautiful loving country the land. Since last 20 years I have been hearing about Latvia and invitation to come to this country. I'm grateful to God and Gurudev that I could come to commemorate 100 years a centinary of yoga tradition in this country and 20 years of kria yoga. East meets west. West eats meat. There was a popular song humorous. My loving one, there is no east, there is no west, there is no north, there is no south, there is just oneness and that is what is needed. Bahuda truth is one. People discuss, debate and explain in many different ways. Rivers are many. When I was looking at this beautiful river, I forgot the name here in Latia. Yesterday when I was coming from the airport wherever I see the river I fold the hands to me every river is Ganga the holy Ganga. this morning through the window when I I was looking at the waters. Time is a flow. Whether it is linear or it is cyclic in this flow we all are floating. This flow is the flow of love. This flow is the flow of understanding. This flow is the flow of integration. The river is going to the ocean. There is a dialogue between the river and the ocean. In Sanskrit river is feminine and ocean is masculine. In poetic description as we heard that some people thought Indian philosophy is romantic. They said the confluence of the ocean and the river. It is the union of the lover and the beloved. The ocean is telling the river, "You are coming to me to be united with me with open hands, open heart, I embrace you. But one thing in me it bothers what is it?" The river is asking. Do you know your water is sweet? My water is saline. People come, they sit on the bank on the shore. They go and swim. But nobody likes my water. But you are so tiny. You know the mothers they love to be slim. The is little big. You are so slim. Always. So beautiful. Your water is sweet. Everybody loves you. The river is telling, "Do you know you are my beloved? I have come to be united with you, to be one with you. But we all are essentially one. Only the difference is I was singing, I was smiling, I was dancing, I was flowing and I was giving myself to everybody unconditionally. To the trees on my bank, to the birds, animals, humans, to the agricultural field, to the aquatic animals living in me along with giving myself. Oh ocean, you are accepting me, receiving me. You love to take But you don't know how to give. Life is to live. Life is to give. Life is to love. Life is to serve. Life is to contemplate. Life is to meditate. Life is to dance. Life is to sing. Life is to cry also. Life is to wipe out tears. Everything is life and we have to pass through it. My loving ones, when I stood here, I didn't know from where to begin and where to end. I will tell a little bit from east and west. In west especially if we look at Europe, North and South America everywhere more Christians this noon time early afternoon when I was looking at different churches, Orthodox churches, other old monumental churches, beauty Beautiful. I asked them why do the Christians use cross? I asked in west to western people. So their simple answer was Jesus was crucified. To remember Jesus we use trust. I asked then Jesus before crucifixion he told if you want to follow me carry your own cross at that time he was not crucified. Why are you using cross? They were silent. Then I told another thing my friend tell me this cross which we tell in English in English cross is to what? In mathematics cross is a symbol but this cross which you use in Christianity it is a plus not a cross. Your trust should be like this. But it is this. So plus means yoga. Plus is addition to add. One meaning of yoga to add to be united. That is what plus. I am looking at you my professor. You are looking at me. There is union of the eyes. This is yoga. We had delicious food on the table. I was looking at the food and serving food. But you all were taking your food. You enjoyed food. I also enjoyed food. But your enjoyment of food was different. My enjoyment of food was different but both are union. Yoga is union. You are listening to me. I am talking to you and union of ideas. Then I asked my loving friends in this cross or plus whatever you tell if you see there is there are two one is a long line vertical there is a short line horizontal this is what you call as cross now I'm telling it is also cross horizontal line It looks like I English alphabet I. I means ego. Cross it. Yoga tells rise above ego. Rise above emotion, frustration, unhappiness, jealousy. Cross it. and then plus be united. This is the union of east and west. Understanding Christianity, understanding the Christian symbol with eastern mind, with a new light. Why not? We all are children of God. We all are born to live joyfully. Why there is so much of you know division? yesterday when I we were asking when Latia got independence and independence from whom? So I was hearing a little bit what happened what happened what happened from the airport coming to the place of night. Why this? I was hearing about Tagore. His poetic works, literary works translated into this language much older than many European languages. Tagore wrote at one place where the mind is without fear and head is held high. Why we have so much of fear? Why we have so much of anxiety, tension? Why? And how to be free? Whether it is mindfulness, whether is heartfulness. But the life should be filled filled with fearlessness, filled with love, filled with joyfulness. And it is possible. We can achieve it. When I tell India, we were listening to Sinas who are speaking why Indian philosophy. Do you know there is no Indian? There is no European. It is a human philosophy is philosophy of life. different way to look at it. You might have heard is a very common story from India that few blind people those who have no ability to see through the eyes wanted to see the elephant. How is it? So one is touching the body thinking that it is like the wall. The other is holding the leg it is like the pillar. One is holding the tail. Oh it elephant is like a snake. Different people without right vision give a strange statement of what elephant is. Another humorous story that in a village people did not see did not know what pig is and they were sitting villagers under the side of a tree just like we have sat here. So one pig ran what is this animal? So there is a debate what is this animal because they have never seen pig. One person said it is the elephant without getting proper nutrition has become so diminished in size it is dimin miniature form of elephant because of starvation. The other one said, "No, no, no, no, no. Elephant is too big. It is the mouse eating too much. It has expanded too big." So the pig is described as fat mouse and you know miniature elephant. That is what is happening in most of the debates and discussions. And I will tell one another cartoon I saw during my teenage late teen early 20 there was you know lots of conflict lots of [Music] you know Soviet US and so on. So the there are two elephants making love. That was the cartoon I saw in India in my late teenage. Below it is written when the two elephants fight poor grass suffers. When two elephants make love poor grass suffers. I hope you understood it. The problem in human life so much of conflict why why can't we live peacefully God created this beautiful earth one earth we divided into many tiny tiny tiny tiny tiny tiny when I came first to Europe in 1994 when I traveled by far from Austria to Germany or to Hungary or anywhere after 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours order, customs, passport control from this country and again the other country again go oh god but now many countries they are uniting together and Somewhere there is division. Why? Why can't we be united? Yoga unites. Yoga is an attitude in our personal life. How I look at everybody. Yoga is a way of living. How I want to live. Life of loving and life of giving. This is what yoga is. Yoga can be from personal can be social can be universal. I'm so happy that 150 60 I don't know all these numbers countries they have united together to celebrate yoga. What is this yoga? I was hearing little ago somebody was asking people don't really understand yoga in the name of yoga there is business there is competition there is so many things going on it's true I'm it is sorry I'm sad to hear this but on the other hand you just think the knowledge whether it is we yoga came from India all Right. Vic knowledge from India to me it is human knowledge. It is for humanity and to unite to be integrated. In mathematics there are in calculus they teach differentiation they teach integration. Yes for our study we can differentiate. This is mango. This is apple. In mango there is differentiation. Can you imagine? There were 30,000 varieties of rice. 30,000 4,000 varieties of mangoes. 4,000 differentiation. Smell, taste, color. Everything that's distinction fine but there is integration. This is the time time of integration. And the other meaning of yoga is integration. Integrating our life in such a way our mind will be pure. Thoughts will be filtered. Words will be polished and refined. Activities will be good for everybody and we can live joyfully. There is need for this integration in our personal life in the family in the community in the country in the whole world. God created beautiful river. No river from this source is polluted. But if we look at the river when we were sitting and chatting with professor nish and his name is Anurag. Anurag means love. And he was telling how people pollute Ganga. River is pure at the source we pollute it. This is the time to be awakened. The other meaning of yoga is awakening. To be awakened in right understanding with positive spirit with love and devotion to be a good human being. Human being my gurudev used to say with the human beings we have transmigrated from many species and we have inherited the impact of animals plants in us. And we have sometimes manifesting more animalistic qualities, quarreling, fighting. It's not human. A spiritual teacher said before telling that you are human being, tell that you are not an animal. I'll tell them story. The animals had a conference. They said this human beings are telling we are superior. We are the best. It is not true. How could they justify that they are the best? We are the best. So each one said why we are best that the human beings they don't have reason or season but we follow reasoning season and we have more discipline. Somebody told me this afternoon you are very disciplined. I said why? I asked yoga is discipline. You just think the rooster will the rooster the crows very early in the morning get up and they tell get up get up get up telling everybody wake up. But we the human beings we want to lie down. We are ley an animal when it is full will not eat. We the human beings if somebody will tell have a cup of coffee please then we even if we first told no then okay why one friend was taking me to few families one day but in the back of his scooter it was 40 years ago so I don't take tea I don't take coffee so wherever we went they were offering ing tea. So I was not taking he was taking tea. So at the end he said I ended up with 10 cups of tea. You took nothing. I said what did you take? You could have said with folded hands no yoga is discipline. If we'll be disciplined if our life will be disciplined we'll be healthy. We'll be happy. We'll be rich. Disciplined people are rich in many ways. I'm not talking from only finance, money. My loving ones, this is the special period of light and love. We are celebrating the international day of yoga. Still then in this world there is war, there is conflict. All play of ego, ignorance and pride. Paramans one of the great masters of yoga which one our kria yoga masters he told fools argue while wise men discuss sit down and discuss in the university we have symposium we have workshop we have seminars we have discussion we have debate Through discussion many beautiful thoughts, ideas come. Pamuna Yogani said if you are in peace, you have contributed your own role in bringing peace to the world. I will be peaceful. I will be loving in my thoughts, in my words, in my activities. I will not be hesitated, excited, angry, upset, critical or jealous. It was again about 40 years ago when a rickshaper was taking me with my bags of books. I was returning from the Himalayas end of summer. He told brother too hot this summer you know global warming is coming I'm telling you 40 years ago because it is slowly increasing every year. too hot. I said, "Why?" He said, "Do you know why? People are very short-tempered. They are getting so agitated, irritated, angry, shouting, screaming. They are releasing hot air through their nose and mouth so much. So there is warmness increasing. Ricker's philosophy of why there is global warming because each individual is too much in hot temper. My loving ones, can we not be cool? Yesterday when I came out of the terminal building walking outside ah so cool present you will tell you came only once if you stay here longer it might be not be pleasant to you. It is not true. It is again attitude. If the mind is warm everything is warm. If the heart is warm, everything is warm. We have to have that as Mr. Singh was telling, we have to connect our heart and mind to live a peaceful joyful life and that we need. I will not talk more. I want to conclude my talk with little meditation. Wherever we are, let us sit with eyes closed. Our body is the temple. Outside temple is manmade. This body temple is godmade. We all are inside the temple. Concentrate wherever you feel comfortable whether it is in your heart in the midpoint of eyebrows or elsewhere. There is your altar. Your beloved is within you. continuously waiting to go within. Watch your breath. Inhalation and exhalation. Breath is going in. New energy, oxygen, new life. Breath is coming out, carbon dioxide. Inhale in love. Exhale in peace. Every breath, just feel the flow. Inhaling love. Exhaling peace. Every breath make your breath little bit slow, long and deep comfortably. Inhale slow, long, deep, in love. Exhale slow, long and completely in peace. Practice it five, six times. A minute in silence. Normal breath. Natural breath. In love, in peace. I bow to God. I bow to all the masters of all times and all places. I bow to my beloved Gurudev. I bow to all of you. and I bow to the entire creation. Let there be peace, progress and prosperity everywhere. Thank you all. I thank the university authorities and the department of humanities for this beautiful program. I thank the Priya yoga latia for their 20th anniversary and bringing me here to this beautiful land. I enjoyed the cool shower and afternoon sunshine. Thank you. Locked in. Thank you so much for this blissful speech and it was like a blessing like it was like a cool shower in a hot day. Thank you. And uh we have some time for uh discussion and some questions and probably answers if somebody wants to rise up some existential question. Yes, please. I have a question. Yeah. Um if all is one, is my pocket your pocket? My loving wise professor Mr. A philosopher born in west doing research and study in east and bringing integrity in humanity. Do you know one young man came to a priest and told I want to I have I want to marry. Have you found a suitable girl? He said, "Yes." How is that? Then he said, "She's very beautiful." Then said zero. Very good manner. Zero educated zero. Lot of monies her parents have zero. So whatever is said the priest gave zero. So then he said he loves God in all. He said you have found a millionaire. Get married. Without one all zeros have no values. If you have one before all zeros it becomes million. My loving one, and pura, and pur one and Buddhism, Hinduism, one Buddha was a Hindu. He wanted to reform the Hindus. Jesus was a Jew. He wanted to reform the Jews. And where are we now? So I am in your pocket. You are in my pocket. You are in my heart. I hope a fragment of me is in your heart. Thank you. Thank you. Um so some other questions comments. Agita you have ideas about what we have to speak now. Okay. Um so um no I will speak from here. Good day. Um I think the last professor was suggesting the progression of cognitive sciences that um could indicate something like mental architecture. And we know um in particularly in western societies uh something like conceptual metaphors like uh metaphors or variables suggesting something u metaphor metaphorically speaking using language but something that indicates that suggest in our body something some aspect some feeling something we can reach and um how do you see is there a potential uh nowadays for co cognitive science, neuroscience etc. these new fields that um try not to look so much uh to language but how our system or body functions um in totality using different approaches like um scanners, brain scanners particularly etc. Thank you. was question. It was that was a question to me. I thought it is a compliment. My loving young scientist. Do you know human system is a mystery? Till now many things to be understood and discovered in spite of growth in modern science and technology and especially in the field of neuroscience. They they have developed a lot but still then it is not enough. Till now this thought, emotion, perception, cognition, understanding the function of the brain, this neurons, all these are still much deepers to be studied. I'll give one very little example from my gurudev's life. My gurudev felt sick. He felt sick not because that he was sick. He created drama. And I'll not elaborate what drama was. It was really very painful drama for me. It was in Europe in Vienna. He went to the hospital on the first day of my public appearance and telling me that he's leaving his body. in the hospital the doctors they were examining him and I don't know exactly know the exact name of that they doing this brain mapping something so there was a completely straight line the graph has become straight line and those who are doing this test this got it is dead dead brain dead dead body they ran to the professor sir what is happening he said don't disturb he's Indian yogi. Then after some time it jumped. The professor asked what happened to you? He said the red cheek of a disciple came to my brain. Human mind thinking our emotion how we can transform it in the modern scientific way? It might take little time but the yogis knew in their own yogic method. I'll give you a simple example. When one is angry, how is his breath? When one is upset, how is his breath? When one has a fear or anxiety, how is the breath? When one is peaceful, how is the breath? When one is sleeping, how is the breath? The yogis found the breath is a link, a gross link between the brain, mind, memory and human life. Change your breath, your life will change. Transform your breath, your life will change. Will transformed. My gurude used to say breath control is self-control. Breath mastery is selfmastery. Transform your breathing. Human brain it needs oxygen. What is the person of the brain to the body? Suppose one person is 100 kilo weight. Nobody is 100 kilos. I I hope so. And the brain is 3 kilos not more. 3%. Brain to the body maximum 3%. But the brain consumes oxygen what is the percentage. If the communists will tell the brain is the capitalist the body is the proletariat. Brain is consuming so much of oxygen. My gurudev used to say oxygen is the nutrition for the brain. Provide more oxygen to the brain. Your brain power will increase, memory will be enhanced. At the same time, your life will be rich. Thank you. My luck to you. Yes. Yes, we have. So please come so we can see. Thank you. Hello. I just wanted to ask what do you think of music and does the music can help us achieve the divine divinity? Breath is a music. Heartbeat is a music. Our words are musical and serping of the bird is music. The wind, the sound of the wind is music. Few days ago in France in my morning work around 6:00 I stood under the tree hearing the buzzing of thousands of beats music life is a music external music also this is the music I told the nature is music external music has effect on body, mind and so on. I met one musician a musician's monk and while playing the music pitting the tabla or playing vina he used to go to the yogic state of samadhi no pulse no breath stops for some time then again he comes back into I have seen him in my own eyes through music is yoga Those who meditate, they listen to inner music. I'm hearing day and night. I hear. Thank you. We have we have to engage with audience online. There is a one rised hand from online questioner. Can we put please on the screen online? So I see there is a raised hand of Alexis. So Alex say I will uh ask you to please now switch on your microphone and please ask your question Alexa. [Music] Yes. Hello to everyone. Do you hear me? Yes we hear you. I even torn video. Uh I wanted to ask one question to uh beloved uh teacher about his awakening. How did he came to this uh maybe like process or how do you name it like this state of awakened or maybe he is enlightened. So what was this uh process his way to this uh state of his mind, body, heart, soul, etc. like everything in together every every part of his self together like that's the question. Okay, we understood. Thank you. Thank you, Alex. Yes. Okay. A baby or the child is sleeping. How long the baby or child sleep? A time comes the baby wakes up naturally. We'll open the eyes. We'll wave the hand. Sometimes mother will go and wake the baby up. So awakening comes in two ways. One is when there is inner fulfillment. The awakening is there when sleep is complete naturally on one awakes. The other is the waking call of the master. Just like the mother or mother tells get up, get up, get up. That is a path. Following a path the awakening comes. Following the path is the following the path of the masters and that is the path directed by the realized. They saw the path we have to walk. So walk on the path you love or you have chosen. Follow the teacher or the guide if you have and you will reach the goal. Jesus said, "Knock, it will be open to you. Ask, you'll find." Thank you. We have some question. Yeah. Gratitude for your answer, master. Yeah, humble salutations to everybody who is here. Thank you so much for incredible uh continuation of the international day of yoga here and we are today all very blessed. There are so so many eminent scholars plus we are very very blessed to have Guruji here, Parmahansa, Prajanandha G. My humble uh salutations to your lotus feet. Uh yeah, we are we have got lot of insight uh through the uh we have gone into lot of depth of spirituality with the grace of the masters and uh guru gi um permanand gi. Uh one question I have of course this question is very simple all of us know this question but I think today on the international day of yoga it is very important to touch this one of the very deep questions of our life. There is a like today we were discussing there were so many eminent scholars here everybody here who are you know trying to you know like u compare the western ideology eastern ideology some were contradicting each other and this and that we went through all of that uh and thank you for the insight from Guru Ghahansa pajanandha gi so the question uh is very very simple. Um like I see like I living in Europe most of the time people are asking you know very simple question what is the purpose of the human form of life. Western you know ideology as per the human goal of life is one and eastern you know the goal of life is another. So you know like everybody when he's born when he's inside the womb of mother he always says god please take me out I will be ever praying to you ever will be grateful to you and once we come out of the womb of the mother we get in touch with this material world and we are lost you know and then everybody has a goal the education the marriage and master degrees PhDs FRS we go higher higher higher and what we did we just study the creation of the god but there is a goal higher than that what is that to know the creator but we hardly somebody reach to that level that we want to know about the creator that is higher than the fs and all the doctor of science or whatever so today since we have a very we are very lucky to have within us uh permansa president g we are all blessed So let us have insight from his you know divine voice what he guides us through his master's you know what is the purpose of the human form of life as per the eastern ideology. Thank you so much. Is there anybody who wants to be unhappy? Is there anybody who wants to be unhappy? Is there anybody who wants to be sick, unhealthy? If there is anybody here who wants to be a fool or unwise, stupid. So we don't want to be whether east or west, no question. Wherever we are, we want to be happy. We want to be healthy. We want to know, we want to be joyful, we want to be in place everybody no matter where. So you know the animals even if mighty elephant the spine is horizontal to the ground. We the human beings little bit in monkey species we stand up straight. We walk straight meaning animals move like this. We should move like this. Movement is not physically our understanding consciousness it should expand and expand and expand. We are born and we have to leave. We came with empty hands. We have to leave with empty hands. When we go back, we have to live in. But we should live with a life of fulfillment, life of joyfulness. In other words, life of completeness. And there is need for material growth. I will not say there is no need even if I'm I'm a monk I came yesterday a flight there's need for some money we have to excel in both materialistic world and spiritual field both there should be little integration if there is integration life is easier beautiful healthy and happy only materialistic growth will not bring peace only growing spiritually it is not really maybe few will get it not everybody there is need for integration of in yogic language the seven chakras bottom chakra is money center this chakra is the center of enlightenment So both materially we should excel, spiritually we will excel both integration and for this path we need a little bit discipline. Just like singing is a discipline, dance is a discipline, taking food it is a discipline, cooking is a discipline. Life needs discipline. Thank you. Not yet. Not yet. We will. Yes. But it uh much better. Yeah. Okay. Finally, I I have a question. Beloved teacher, what we should remember in the age of artificial intelligence to be disciplined. What we should remember in the age of artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence is the creation of natural intelligence. Again I'm telling artificial intelligence is the creation of natural intelligence. Artificial intelligence is the byproduct of the information which has been fed with our natural intelligence. I believe in nature. I believe in love of nature. Let us have our inner intelligence. In yogic language or in vantic thinking, each one of us have mind. Mind is the doubting faculty. Mind questions. Each one of us has memory. Memories the remembering ability. Each one of us has ego. Ego is individualistic attitude towards life. Each one of us such intellect, right thinking and right decision making. machines help internet, Google, your AI but take care of your mind. Use this mind using too much of machine it damages our ability of the brain, creativity of the brain. So modern world use AI as much is needed but don't completely depend upon it. Use your intelligence whenever it is needed you use it. So today when I was holding my computer and I was working Sumit G came and asked me do you have your card? I said no. Do you have telephone number? I said no. Then I said because he'll ask email ID, Facebook and so on. I said I don't have anything. I have a computer. I read or write that's all. So human brain has so much of ability. The modern scientists have found that high quality intellectuals like Nobel laureates, picss, prominent scientists, they do not even use 10% of the ability of their brain power. 90% of the brain power is unutilized, untapped. You just think earlier we were remembering a lot. Nowadays we don't want to remember because why to remember it is there in the machine. Children are not remembering in the form of artificial intelligence. Let not the brain the creativity the ability of our younger generation go downward. In Ramayana there is description of Raana with 10 heads. How many heads? So to me he had one head and using artificial intelligence. That is what Raono is. He had 20 hands. But with we all have two hands. He had efficiency, productivity 10 times more than others. But do you know what happened? Went in the wrong direction. So let not this artificial intelligence misguide our younger generation in wrong direction. My love to you. Thank you. Thank you so much.