[music] Well, first of all, let me welcome all our friends. Some of them are old ones. I recognize some names, but I know some of our new friends, but really fellow explorers, which is exactly what I feel. For anybody to imagine that you have questions and I have answers is really in a way an error. Any serious questions which any of us has cannot be answered by anybody except yourself. Others can assist us sometimes point in certain directions where we may search or where we may explore but it always remains our unique and individual journey. So let's now begin. First of all just a quick reminder from last time and I shall begin with the very first image that I had last time as well. This is Shiva the lord of yoga and as you see here he's dancing on this demon of forgetfulness apasara because primarily this is one of the fundamental directions of search in yoga what am I what have I forgotten as my true nature and that is the doing of apasar we'll return to this name again and again. There is another name for this muia which literally means one which creates illusion very similar to this. Apasara is probably the commonest way of speaking about this demon of forgetfulness. And it is also useful for us to keep in mind that whether we are males or females, what is actually recommended in the whole practice and theory of yoga is bringing together our own what traditionally would have been called masculine and feminine energies which is very much indicated by the figure that I'm now showing to you which is the one of the forms of Shiva the lord of yoga in which he's half male half female female version is often referred to as shaky which literally means energy or power or force so shiva and shi together that is the call for all of us to bring this together and this is expressed in varieties of ways. More specifically in the yoga literature it is expressed as pura and pracrati. Purusha is the whole domain of consciousness. Sometimes we simply use the word seeing. is the pure seer, pure attention. And as Patanjali himself says in the yoga sutras, this is the in the second chapter sutra 20 that the seer is the only the power of pure seeing. Although pure, the seer appears to see with the mind. This is periodically referred by Patanjali as one of our difficulties. We think that the mind is the knower or the mind is the seer which is what I mentioned last time as well. That really the whole starting point of yoga sutras is that the mind needs to be quiet so that it becomes a good instrument of knowledge rather than the knower. I gave the simple example. Microscope is not the knower but an observer sees through the microscope which can be a bad one or a good one. So we wish our mind to be a good instrument completely clean as Patanjali himself says like a pure diamond so that it doesn't introduce any color of its own whenever it is placed on any object. But come back to the PowerPoint that I'm showing here. Purusha and Pracriti need to be together. And Ishwar Krishna just like Patanjali is said to be the author of the yoga sutras. Similarly, Ishwar Krishna is said to be the author of Sananka Karika. Yoga and sanankha are two schools of philosophy in India out of six more or less traditional schools. These two are often coupled together and these words like pursha and purriti are very much part of the sananka philosophical ideas and Krishna is said to be the author of sananka karika and this is his remark purusha without pracriti is lameriti without purusha is blind both of these are needed to come together. This is a an absolutely important idea that none of us can actually be alive without the combination of the two. And according to Patanjali, the whole purpose of pracriti in us which is manifested by our body and by our ordinary mind and ordinary emotions that is prcari nature all of nature not only to be taking gross nature but even subtle nature which is why any of the so-called miracles [snorts] people get very fascinated by these miracles for example in the gospels or elsewhere. From the perspective of the Indian philosophy or the yoga philosophy, these are not supernatural. They are just subtle natural. They are still part of nature. They are not above nature. Purusha is in a way above nature. But everything that exists [snorts] including you and I are put together if you like or we come alive precisely as pura and pructati come together. >> [snorts] >> Let me remind you of a very similar idea actually in the the book of Genesis in the Bible. God created human beings from the earth. Then he breathed his own breath into them to make them alive. The very fact that we exist is an indication that we have the divine breath in us. The churches don't like you to believe all this. But this is where I think you need to keep coming back to the yoga philosophy and theory to be a little free of our usual churchly doctrines. But this is a very fundamental idea. Let me continue with this idea in a slightly different context. Krishna who is also in the Bhagat Gita. Ah Gita is another great classic of yoga along with the yoga sutras. In fact, it has much more elaboration of varieties of yoga much more than the yoga sutra does. And there Krishna reveals himself as the incarnation of the highest god. And this is more or less the this happens in a battlefield where Krishna is at that particular moment guiding the chariot of Arjuna is a very legendary warrior. And this is what he says in the Bhagat Gita. Everything is born from the union of the field and the knower of the field. I am the knower of the field in every field. What does it mean? Absolutely everything that exists certainly you and I have some aspect of Krishna in us. And this is a very important idea in the whole of the Indian tradition very deeply subtly repeated in many many different ways that the very subtlest highest divinity resides in our deepest self and the call is for us to realize this to recognize this and we'll keep coming back to this idea again and again because the whole yoga sutra is dedicated to this practice. practice but all yoga is dedicated to this. Yoga is for us to become aware of what our true nature is so that apas the demon of forgetfulness doesn't completely overpower us. So [clears throat] let me continue with this idea a little bit more here. Krishna actually says even much more strongly not only he's seated in our heart [snorts] in our mind but even in our body read this those who undertake violent austerities torture the aggregates of the elements in the body and also torture me who is seated within the body. I have given the Sanskrit word there Sharasan. You have the precise reference and which is to say that absolutely everything that exists has some aspect of Krishna in it. Which is why everything in the whole universe has some slight amount of consciousness. This idea was not foreign in the western philosophical tradition. For example, in much of the ancient Greek philosophy, particularly for Plato, much the same exists that everything has some degree of consciousness in it. And therefore the possibility from any level to be able to rise to a higher level. Although in the Indian context one would say to go to a deeper and deeper level and that is of course as we already had earlier from the yoga sutras that requires the mind to be still so that it can become a more and more clear instrument of the real seer or the real knower and there Patanjali said stillness develops through practice [snorts] and nonidentification these two words are very important abas and vagya I had mentioned this last time as well and especially to draw your attention to Two facts here. First of all about vaga. I mentioned this last time. This is actually the very this next sutra or next two sutras from Patangi where he says that the higher vaga arises from a vision of purusha. Otherwise we can get fed up with the world. We want to move away from it. It doesn't make any sense. We want to be detached from it. So we wish to become indifferent to it or become nonidentified with it. That is one way. And almost all the great searchers actually if you look at the history of any of the saints and sages in any tradition including Christianity or Buddhism or Hinduism, they often begin their spiritual journey because they are tired of the world. It doesn't make sense to them or it is being driven as the gospel says by the forces of darkness. But that vagya is regarded as a lower vaga by padi. The higher vaga he says arises if one has had a vision of something subtler or higher. But clearly we need to begin from where we are. The other remark I wanted to also make here in connection with abhas in the interestingly abhas which is practiced requires a great deal of will willpower strength all that is essentially [snorts] arising from our ego. Vagya on the other hand essentially is calling for more and more freedom from our ego. In practice, if you see these two demands may seem contradictory. However, if we can understand more and more and I will be happy here to quote my own teacher, Madame the Salsman reminding me that ego is a good servant but a bad master. Who needs a servant who wants to just lie around and do nothing? We need a servant who has some energy and some willingness to serve. But if the servant begins to run the whole household and to make all the decisions, this is where the problem comes. So here is a very interesting combination of the two requirements here. All practice, all staying with anything in any kind of effort requires a strong will and a strong ego. On the other hand, the call is to be free of ourselves more and more and more. I already even the title of this very webinar is freedom from the self. As I mentioned last time quoting Christ in the gospels, unless you leave yourself behind, you cannot be a follower of mine. So that is in a way the direction but very simple reminder only the rich can practice poverty. The poor have no choice. Unless you have a strong ego you cannot actually try to be free of the ego. It's a very interesting area for you to consider. Let us nevertheless proceed further here. I had said that I will more focus on the second chapter here [clears throat] and because we need obviously to look at the yoga sutras very carefully. This is the very first sutra in the second chapter. The practice of yoga consists of tapas and pranidhan. And if I just said that only in English, it consists of self- discipline, self-study and dedication to God. And really today my intention is to spend most of this webinar now essentially on these three ideas or three words if you like and these three words in Sanskrit it's good to keep them in Sanskrit because every translation is a sort of a transcreation and it's very difficult to find one single word as a translation of the word in any other language. It's the same problem going from English to Sanskrit because any serious writers or sages using whatever language they use gradually add subtle [snorts] nuances to important ideas and that they cannot be translated by single word in the other in any other language. So here first of all to emphasize the importance of these three things let me also remind you that they occur again when Patanjali speaks about yama and nyama. Some of you I am assuming are familiar with the yoga sutras or at least these words. But basically yama and nyamas are the way of saying certain things we need to be free of to be to refrain from and other things which we ought to be practicing. So the nyamas which are the things which are recommended parts of discipline yoga discipline are purity contentment and then these three others which I just mentioned namely self discipline self-study and dedication to god the reason I brought this here is to indicate that these three ideas three practices of yoga are clearly very much emphasized by patan twice explicitly mentioning them. So we would pay more attention to them now. So these are the three words I'm now going to pay attention to because each one is important for us to understand in depth. So first of all maybe before I go to Swadha here let me just mention about tapas. Tapus has been translated in varieties of ways. As I said, every translation is really a transcreation. Even when people are not tendentiously or intentionally trying to bring their own perspective, even doing violence to the original, even when translators do their best, still they don't always agree with each other because they bring their own philosophical perspective to bear on their translations. So tapas has been translated as offered, effort, austerity, aeticism, self- discipline. All of these are possible translations. There is a very strong tendency in the Indian tradition. In fact, you can find this in most religious traditions at different times in history. In the Indian tradition, a very strong acetic tendency [snorts] and there of course then naturally one would regard kapus to be aeticism of some kind or austerity whereas one can understand that very simply as self discipline particularly Krishna in the Bhagat Gita is very clear about it that those who eat too much or too little or Those who sleep too much or too little cannot really practice yoga. So there the recommendation is to find the appropriate balance that the body including our ordinary mind and emotion both need to be disciplined but not to be tormented not to be tortured. So purpose understood as effort clearly nothing is possible in the world to do absolutely anything. If one wanted to do play any music, do any painting, do any physics, philosophy, reading the yoga sutras, all that requires tapas. This hardly needs to be emphasized. is emphasized in all serious teachings and literally it simply is made up of two Sanskrit word plus literally means selfstudy. It is also true if you just looked at some standard Sanskrit to English dictionary often they will give the first meaning of this word suadhya as studying sacred literature. It seems to me fairly obvious and I think in our more or less contemporary times Jay Krishna Morti was the one who emphasized more than anybody else saying what is the point of studying sacred literature unless you study the book of yourself. No teaching can have any real meaning for us unless we apply it to ourselves. [snorts] also recognizing that what I can now experience naturally depends on the develop stage of development of my being. Therefore, not to be wholly relying on my experience. It's a double thing. I need to rely on my experience to be able to verify what is being said, how it applies to me, how do I understand it. At the same time allowing the possibility that when we become more grown up in the sense of emotional development, intellectual development, development of spiritual being that we may be able to understand something that has been said by the great sages like Christ or the Buddha or Lay that maybe I don't now understand I don't now experience something. So to count on one's experience but not to get too attached to allow the possibility that there are things that I do not know. Even if I were a combination of Einstein, Shankra and Nagarjana put together, I still cannot know all there is to know. It's a plainly obvious idea. Therefore, periodically to return to this old serious notion of unknowing, this is very important idea. Unknowing is not a celebration of ignorance. It is a state in which I am open to be surprised. I may see something that I don't now see. >> [snorts] >> So self-study or self-nowledge, self- inquiry, self-observation, these will be fairly acceptable translations of this word. And it's absolutely crucial. There is no serious spiritual teaching. Some of you, particularly if you're not somehow been so put off by the churches that you dismiss the so-called gnostic gospels, you will find similar remarks in the Gnostic Gospels of, for example, Philillip or Matthew, sorry, of uh Thomas. Um, great deal of emphasis on self-nowledge. Every spiritually oriented sage practically oriented will emphasize this. And it is clearly important for us to realize that we have many many levels within ourselves. In fact, the next this remark of the Buddha will be a helpful thing. In this very body you can discover all the demons and all the gods. This is actually part of the difficulty of self-nowledge because occasionally we see something rather nice about ourselves. Some gods we are happy to proclaim it to everybody but when we see something rather demonic it can lead to greater despair. This is one way the organized religions try to capture us. They want to keep reminding us that we are really sinful. We are demonic basically and therefore we should really turn to them for being saved in one way or the other. So but it is very important to understand that this remark of the Buddha is inviting us to see all these various demons and gods. That does not mean that I need to continue to nourish these demons or to stay at that level. In fact, the Buddha himself, just to remind you, his very sometimes it is said in the Buddhist tradition that his very last realization before his enlightenment was to see that mara which will be more or less the devil in the Christian way of speaking that the mara who was trying to tempt him and to frighten him to basically dislodge him from his meditation. The Buddha saw that Mara is a part and parcel of himself which is what actually freed him from Maha. And we have another great Sufi sage making a interesting remark. If you have not yet seen the devil go look in the mirror. That is roomie. Don't be afraid to see the way it actually is. All of us carry some marks of every possible manifestation of human beings in the whole of humanity. From the highest sublime qualities to the lowest qualities of jealousy, of greed, violence, anger, all of this exists. These are all marks of our ordinary humanity. But then or if you wish to use a more modern way of speaking about it, Carl Jung speaks about our shadow. However, these are just different ways of expressing that we have all aspects of human possibilities within us. That does not mean that I need to get so attached to all these lower levels or I need to nourish them or to stay with them. There is a a kind of a double matrix here because we have many levels within ourself and also we are seeing with a certain level of the self. So we get a very interesting as I said like a double matrix which level of the self is actually seeing something and what level of the self is being seen. For example, I can begin my self-nowledge essentially by saying what is particular or peculiar to me. I was born at such a such place. My father does this. I'm so many feet or inches tall etc. This is also self-nowledge but nothing to write home about. This is very personal. Deeper I can go into my self. [snorts] Closer I go to the deeper self of all other human beings [snorts] very soon any serious self-nowledge actually becomes a study of the human condition and certainly again very central to the whole of Indian philosophy and also of yoga is the idea that if I can go to the very center of myself then I will be at the center of everything because at the very center of myself I will return to this idea in a few few minutes. I become speak using the Indian method of speaking I become one with Brahma the very highest reality the highest one could try to personify it as ishwara I will return to this when we speak about Ishwara pranidha submitting to Ishwara or dedication to ishwara but [snorts] let's come back to the question of self-nowledge first of all self-nowledge and selfrust transformation are not two things otherwise it's not the right kind of knowledge. If the knowledge does not affect my being it is just carrying on. It has no particular meaning from the point of view of spiritual development. This is a very important perspective to keep in mind. We have great philosophers like Perminades or Plutinus in the western tradition speaking exactly about this that knowing and being are intimately related with each other and certainly in the Indian tradition very strong emphasis for example in the mundai in order to know the highest Brahma you have to become Brahma and conversely one who knows the highest Brahma becomes Brahma. So knowing and being needs to be understood this in a spiral manner rather than in a linear manner. I know something truly that is bound to change the kind of person I am otherwise it's not any real knowledge and then that slightly changed person wishes to know something more deeply or more largely searching for the whole vastness which are the very deep ideas starting right from the riga entering to the Bhagat Gita and the yoga sutras and all the standard text in India satyamat that the search is for truth order and vastness sometimes it's also called light joti so therefore come back to this notion that knowing and being are actually intimately related with each other influencing each other and there I have written there as you can see awareness is the mechanism of transformation. [snorts] How is spun transformed? remember the other day and those of you by the way who were not able to hear me directly as you know you all have access to that particular website where you can go through the whole webinar there I try very much to emphasize the idea that it's practically the fundamental requirement in any spiritual teaching that as long as I remain the way I am I cannot come to the truth or to God so transformation is absolutely essential. A spiritual birth is another way of saying it or being born from above using the remarks of Christ in the gospel of John. So awareness is the mechanism of transformation. If I can become aware even of my whatever I might regard as sinfulness, if I become aware more and more deeply without making excuses, if I suffer the fact that I am given to jealousy, you would see gradually if something in you is freed of jealousy. Let me repeat this. If you actually if anybody knows any other mechanism of transformation, I'll be happy to hear about it. As far as I know, there is actually no other mechanism of transformation other than to actually see the way I am even to suffer the fact that that is the way I am and to stay with it to enhance the quality of our perception rather than getting stuck with what I see. It is much more important the fact that I see and to enhance that seeing to make it more steady, more deep and more impartial. So selfstudy or self-nowledge all these words are appropriate translations of swad is absolutely essential requirement of any spiritual transformation and the yoga sutra as I already quoted to you at least twice refers to this as an important activity of yoga. And one of the things one would discover that all my actions, all my thinking, all my habits are driven by my entire past conditioning. I am now the end product of my entire past including my biological past including the fact that I was born in 20th century rather in the second century born in India rather than Canada born a male rather than a female born of whether I'm born of a rich family or a poor family all this conditions us and even the language or the music we grow up listening to Actually there is more and more research being done on this that the language and music that we grow up listening changes our brain structure. So all this is our past and I am now the end product of that past and therefore in fact I begin to see if I am serious about self-nowledge. that it is not so easy to allow myself to be transformed because everything in me all my friends my family my cultural conditioning all wishes to keep me the way I am later on this is Patangi describes this as one of the clashes one of the hindrances called abhinvesh which is a tendency to be to stay with the status quo It's an addiction to the status quo that is very much a part of our situation because all the forces in our life wish to keep us there and therefore it is good for us to look at the fact that in general we say I am acting I am doing something but in general we are reacting based on our biological makeup our psychological makeup, our cultural makeup, religious makeup. [snorts] And let me in this context draw your attention to the law of karma which as everybody knows is an extremely important law although gets associated with India but one could hardly deny it anywhere else. I have to keep reminding people that if something is true it is true. As I gave this example last time, the law of gravitation was discovered by an Englishman. But if it applies only to the English people or only in England, it cannot be a true law. Similarly, something in yoga or in for example the law of karma may be inunciated in India but if it applies only in India or if yoga is relevant only to the Indians, you can just dismiss the whole thing. Then it is not true. So look at the law of karma. This is not the way it is usually expressed and therefore I'm particularly drawing your attention to this. This is one way of looking at it. As one is so one acts and then as one acts so one becomes. And since in general all our actions are more or less repeating themselves. There are many many stories. People are fed up with a particular job. They give up that job. Then they find another job which is almost exactly a similar one. Or they are fed up with their marriage. They get divorced but then marry somebody who is more or less a similar person. So we repeat this again and again and again. And this law can strictly speaking be expressed like this. As one is so one reacts. This is the law of complete determinism. I am stuck with my karma as is sometimes said by people. Quite right. I am a certain kind of person and I'm just bound to react in that way. Isn't my body having grown up in India eating certain kind of food is accustomed to reacting in certain way to some other food. But somebody growing up in Canada having eaten some other kind of food will not react that way. So as one is so one reacts and then the whole movement in any spiritual development is to move from reaction to response [snorts] and the whole magic is in that semicolon which is why I have put it put it in red there and enlarged it because if I can become I am aware of my reactions. What is causing this reaction? What conditioning has brought me to this mode of reaction? Here doesn't action here doesn't mean external physical action. It also includes thinking, feeling. So what mode of my conditioning has brought me to think like this or to feel like this or to react like this. If I can become aware of this and act otherwise or feel otherwise or think otherwise then I am responding then as one responds so one becomes that is the meaning of transformation otherwise I react and I continue just to be the same person if I don't change anything inwardly. And how would it change? If I become aware of my whole conditioning. Not to imagine that one can be aware of the whole conditioning all at once. But one begins needs to begin the study which is the whole large project. Any spiritual undertaking is a lifelong project or in India we would say many lives project. Even the Buddha took many lives lives. So one should not feel in a hurry as if you take one weekend workshop and are enlightened. That happens only in California. But in any serious teaching this is a lifelong study. So come back to this idea. The second part of this law of karma is actually the law of liberation. The first part is determined. I'm stuck. But then how can I be free? In order to be free, I need to become aware of why and how I am stuck and then I don't react. I respond and then I become a different person. That is really the whole idea of saying how awareness becomes brings transformation. So as you can see here the word the law of karma uses the word karma means action. It means also work but it also a verb to do to react to act all those are its meanings depending on the context. So I I hope I have tried to show to you that the whole spiritual development which is after all the sole purpose of yoga can be summed in these two words to move from reaction to response and it requires a lot of will and effort tapas and of course one would not even be aware of any of this without swadaya. It is useful for us to take some iconic examples so that we can understand this kind of idea. So I have an example here from a remark situation in the life of Christ. This is from the gospel of Luke. Even in the midst of an excruciating suffering caused by crucifixion, Christ did not react. He responded and said, "Father, forgive them for they know not what they do." It's always very helpful if we can think of some iconic figures or iconic from your own point of view. Certainly for me, any of these very great sages, Li, Buddha, Christ, Krishna, these are iconic figures. If we can find some remark of theirs of some situation in their life [snorts] that can clarify a principle without us having to argue about it. So the principle here is fairly straightforward but most of us certainly I see myself if I were even remotely anywhere in that situation I would be reacting wanting to get off blaming somebody. But father forgive them for they know not what they do. So this is a very high development but as I said earlier and I'm now just repeating it simply that the movement is from reaction to response. However there is still one higher stage which is very rare in human history. But again naturally we have to look at very iconic figures like Christ. Here is an example. When you lift up the son of man, you will come to realize I am and that I do nothing by myself. He neither reacts nor responds. I say only what the father has taught me. I'm not myself the source of the words I speak. It is the father who dwells in me doing his own work. This is a very high stage in which basically the person is not initiating anything from one's own self-will. He or she becomes an instrument of the divine will. Literally the word prophet in Greek actually means instrument. So this is how we get prophets of God. They are not even necessarily eager to be doing the will of God but as if they have no choice. They become instruments of the will of God. Certainly you see this with prophet Abraham with Moses with prophet Muhammad. It's not so clear in the in the gospels about Christ was necessarily unwilling to do this. Although even he actually said in the garden of Gami if it is possible let this cup pass me by. Yet not my will but thy will be done. This is a very important idea. How to become an instrument so that one actually is not strictly speaking doing anything at all. It is being done through me or by me but not by me but in me being done in me or through me but I'm not doing it. This is a very important idea in the yoga literature. And here let me quote to you from a classic of yoga Bhagat Gita. Steadfast in yoga the knower of truth realizes truly I do nothing at all. It is all being done but I am not doing it. There is a very interesting remark in Daqing. A sage does nothing but nothing is left undone. So a real yogi is in such harmony with all the cosmological forces that whatever needs to be done is being done through him or even one might say by him but he's not initiating it. He's not doing it. So as you [snorts] see here this remark of Krishna that a yogi sees truly I do nothing at all. [snorts] Then the seer dwells in its essential nature because doing also is the doing of the mind. Mind is carrying on. And this is by the way maybe I did not write this in Sanskrit here. This state is called nash karma in the Bhagat Gita which is a state of non-action. Not doing anything at all. But Krishna repeatedly says that this is not a state of inaction. I am engaged in action but I am not starting the action. I am not actually the doer. It is being done through me. So moving further then the sear dwells in its essential nature. This is what Patanjri said very early on in the chapter first chapter because the mind is also always doing something. So if the mind can actually be quiet then the real seer can see through the mind just as the real divine will can be done through the human body through the human mind. So swadha this is another aspect of the same idea that I was just speaking about. Let me repeat this. This is also from the Bhagat Gita Krishna. The one who sees that the gonas are the forces of nature, forces of prati that the gonas and nothing else is the doer and knows what is above the gonas which is purusha attains my state of being. In Sanskrit the word is madabha. This is the goal not only of yoga but of every spiritual teaching in India to become one with Krishna or with Brahma or with Christ or with Buddha whatever label appeals to you what indicates to you something very subtle and real that is the call. So here this is the classic of yoga as I said earlier Bhagat Gita and that's the remark of Krishna and self-nowledge is really in a way deeper and deeper self-nowledge is a knowledge of one's true self which is again repeatedly said Krishna here is saying is a knowledge of Krishna Krishna who is seated in the heart and body and mind of everyone One, this idea is very seriously involved in the understanding of ishwar pranad. Especially important for people brought up mostly in the biblical tradition. Somehow it is almost impossible for them to think of Ishwar or God as deeply seated within themselves which is so central to the whole of the Indian thinking of yoga thinking as well. And therefore it is useful for me to remind you that the suggestion of ishwar panidhan dedication to god is not some external god somewhere else. [snorts] One begins to see that within oneself one has many different levels of the self or sometimes it is called many different eyes. Most of these eyes are more or less at the same horizontal level. I like this, I don't like that. And [snorts] today I may like particular kind of food. Tomorrow I might like some other kind of food. Those eyes are not anything particularly important to or anything to write home about. But one also begins to discover that within oneself that there are some eyes or some levels of the self which are slightly more conscious if you like closer to their divine essence or divine nature. This notion is practically universal throughout human history in all the various ages that we have two natures occasionally called angelic nature and animal nature or higher nature lower nature. St. Paul refers to this as spiritual nature carnal nature. This idea is practically universal everywhere. So the suggestion that I can move more and more towards my spiritual nature more and more towards Krishna within myself that is what I need to be submitting myself to that is what is is pranha as I said this is extremely important to emphasize particularly in the western context where I think for some reason I speak to so many people they're always somehow convinced I don't want to submit to any god. I don't know whether there is any god or nobody is inviting you to submit to anything other than to see that within yourself you have many different levels something you would yourself regard to be deeper in you to be more conscious in you and that is the call of ishwaran [snorts] literal translation is submitting to God but one of the indication of that Is that deepest self towards which one wishes to move is more and more free of time. Which is why again using couple of iconic figures it is very common idea in the Buddhist tradition to say when the Buddha was enlightened he became kalimut which is to say free of time. Kal is time but that is not against time. To become free of time is not against time because he also became trali which is to say seer of three times. He could see past, present and future. This dimension of eternity which is what we mean by freedom from time is not something which is everlasting. Everlasting is not eternal. Those are two completely different ideas. You could have a a pole somebody going up and down that pole. When he goes up he goes down. When he's down he can go up. He can doing this everlastingly. That does not make anything eternal. Eternal is not a dimension of time. It is a dimension of being. Only for example, let me actually give an example which may be more familiar to people. Christ said before Abraham was, I am. Now clearly from any ordinary time point of view makes no sense. And in that very chapter in John's gospel where he makes this remark, the crowd picks up stones to try to kill him because they don't understand what is going on. He's just crazy. But the very suggestion and we'll come back to this again if I have time in their very last webinar that the highest state of consciousness that Patanjali speaks about called cavalia is freed of time sequence. So we have this kind of notion that closer we move or deeper we move to our deeper and deeper self or closer to the deepest self there is a very different notion of time and space. I don't have much time right now to to develop this. So let me now actually little bit move on um partly to draw your attention to an exercise that I'm suggesting because all of us doesn't matter where we grow up we have some notion of God it gets drumed us into us right from childhood onwards and I'm inviting you to think what does God mean to you? And has your image of God changed from childhood to now? And if you can write briefly on your understanding of and your image of God, if you have a friend with whom you are happy to share these things, it is very useful. In my personal judgment, these things are actually any serious undertaking of a spiritual kind is always assisted by having a community of fellow searchers. So even if you have one others or two other people with whom you can share some of these things, it will deepen your own understanding and also it will assist assist your fellow searchers. So think of what is your idea of God and because as you I don't know whether you can read this remark here I just I will read this out for you different states of consciousness project different images of God loving or vengeful or jealous energetic or terrifying and different images of God affect the nature and quality of our response to God. The image or idea of God as wrothful and jealous will have a different effect than the image or the idea of God as loving. Similarly, whether God is regarded as male or female will have a significant impact on the culture. So this is a very serious idea of your own impression or image or idea of God and especially if you can share it with somebody be very helpful. I'm afraid our time is coming to an end. If any of you wish to write any questions to me, please do so. But email is I think I may have it next here. Let me see. Yes, it's written there. Raindra eastink.ca. And I will try to attend to this as soon as I can either by email if it is more or less personal. Otherwise in the webinar I will speak next time. Just to remind everybody that the next webinar will not be on next Friday. today being 18th and the next Friday is 25th because that is a day after the American Thanksgiving and it was considered not a good idea to have it then. So the next webinar will be on December 2 and then the last one on December 9. And to all my American friends, I wish them happy Thanksgiving. Although your culture is right now is in the middle of a great turmoil but I hope if you genuinely submit to ishwar pramadhan within yourself a deeper self within yourself you will also help your country. Thank you very much.