[music] Okay. So, let me welcome everybody who has already come online but others will naturally hear this or see this later. to continue from the last time as I had mentioned with a quotation from Michelangelo that he saw an angel in the stone and chiseled and chiseled until he released the angel. This is really the chiseling we need to do about the clatas. Clatas are let me simply remind you again these are the impediments that stand in our way. And what is the aim? As Patanjali's yoga sutra mentioned, this is the second sutra in the second chapter. Let me quickly remind you. The aim of yoga or practice of yoga he says is to cultivate samadhi and to work towards diminishing the clas meaning diminishing what stands in the way. So then we now look at the screen where I have continued with the second chapter. I'll largely stay with the second chapter and it's the 10th sutra in the second chapter. These subtle clas can be overcome by reversing the natural flow and returning to the source. It is very important for us to understand that all spiritual practice is in a direction contrary to our usual tendencies and which is also what this sutra is saying. The reason for that is very simple or if you like metaphysically fairly straightforward that the whole manifested universe requires that the forces of nature work to towards more and more manifestation. If one uses more or less the Indian way of looking at it where we speak not in terms of higher and higher levels but we tend to speak in terms of deeper and deeper levels because of the fundamental assumption that the very highest energy or highest being God resides in our deepest. So it's very strong attitude in India. This [clears throat] is why you would see practically all spiritually oriented diagrams from India. Thankas in Buddhism or Hinduism or anywhere they would be concentric circles or concentric triangles or right angles. So using that metaphor the way one would say is that the general forces of nature are centrifugal. They are moving away from the center outward. Whereas spiritual practice makes us to connect with those forces which are centripal meaning moving towards the center. So in that sense it is exactly the reversal of that direction. Let me while I'm continuing with this actually move to the very next slide as well where I use these two words. Pratipi Prasab is the word that Patanjali actually uses in this sutra that I just quoted and literally it means counterflow that our mind has a natural tendency to be oriented outward. There is nothing wrong about this. One needs to understand that that is the way the manifested universe actually works. There [snorts] is another way of looking at it or this is a very classical way of putting it that we have two natures. Sometime they're simply called higher nature and lower nature. St. Paul for example refers to them as spiritual nature and carnal nature. Often other images get used such as angelic nature and demonic nature. This is a expression in the Bhagat Gita or other expressions such as angelic nature and animal nature. What is being suggested simply that we have both of these natures. Another way of saying that we are children of both heaven and earth. And the important thing is to actually honor both of these parents but in the right order so that we take care of the earth care of things in time with the consideration of eternity in the light of heaven if you like. So the whole practice of yoga is not meant to forget about our concern for the earth. Although I should keep reminding you that in India as in many other traditions there is a very aesthetic streak which basically moves to moves away from any concern for the earth that this is all maya or illusion. This is not really to be taken seriously. We should all move towards the spirit. And really every religion is always very eager to somehow get to heaven. Forgetting that we are in this body in this incarnation for some purpose. It is not pointless to be in the body. I will return to this point again. [snorts] Body is absolutely necessary. Even though the suggestion is again and again that this body needs to serve something else to serve the spirit. So coming back to the sutra here, pratip prasab is the Sanskrit way of saying counterflow. I occasionally end up giving these sanskrit words because every translation is a sort of a transcreation and [snorts] depending very much on the general philosophical attitude of the person who is translating. For example, I earlier gave this example of um Abinh. Some people who seem somehow finding their life so miserable would end up translating this which is a very common translation. You can look up in many yoga sutra books as if this means wish to continue living as if there is something wrong with this. Literally, it simply means wishful continuation of whatever the state is. Similarly, [snorts] other words. So I end up using a few of these Sanskrit words to draw your attention. Actually anybody can learn maximum you need to learn about 20 words. Uh probably no more than that. And my partner occasionally reminds me that even a chimpanzeee apparently can learn 40 words. So it's not so difficult for us. So coming back to this word pratip prasab literally means the counterflow and the suggestion there is very much that there are naturally outward tendencies or centrifugal tendencies which need to be overcome. That does not mean that we need to withdraw from the world or to forget about the planet or forget about our body. None of this is suggested although that streak exists. [clears throat] Continuing with the next sutra here. [snorts] This is again very interesting. What is the cause of suffering that suffering exists can hardly be denied. In fact, this is the very first noble truth of the Buddha that there is suffering. Then there are different people put what are the cause of that suffering in a slightly different way. For example, for the Buddha, this is another of the noble truths of the Buddha that the cause of suffering is really selfishness or selfish craving. Sometimes translated as desire. For Krishna Morti the cause of suffering seems to be thought that that is what leads to suffering. But for Patri it's rather interesting to look at this sutra. The cause of suffering is the misidentification of the sear with the scene. What is easily seen if we look at ourselves is our own body. And to imagine that that's what I am that is a misidentification of the sear with the scene. And this again if you recall previous occasion I had shown some of these slides that what is avidya? What is ignorance to take the transient for the eternal was one of the ways. So if we misidentify what the sear is and that that is basically the scene then that is the cause of suffering according to pathali which is a little different way of saying from other people and if you now recall I'm slightly stepping back we showed this slide last time what isa that is exactly the misidentification of the power of seeing with what is seen [snorts] here he speaks about the power of seeing. In the earlier slide that I just showed, it was the seer. But recall again, the chief characteristic of the seer is the power of seeing. In fact, the very here here [clears throat] is the other sutra which says exactly what I just finished saying, namely the seer is only the power of pure seeing. We [snorts] have a tendency just to speak about seeing without the sear is somehow grammatically doesn't make sense because we are accustomed in English and in most languages subject object predicate. So we end up creating a subject. But really what is being suggested that actual real seeing is in which seer seeing and the scene all come together. I had mentioned this last time as well that is called samapati. A fusion coming together of all of these characteristics. So we continue with this here that asita is really essentially as I mentioned last time as well literally it means I am this that means I remove myself from the whole ocean or the whole reservoir of being and identify myself with one particular aspect that then separates me from the whole and the Separate self would be another way of translating asmita. And the separate self is by nature also a separating self. It separates me from the others because I'm different from the others. I'm not related with the others. And all relationship whatever kind it is requires some element of love. On the other hand, no love can actually exist if I'm wholly occupied with me me. So that is another way of understanding that the very nature of Asmita as a separating self interferes with my relationship with anything else. Not only other persons but with nature generally looking at a tree or a puppy dog. [snorts] All relationships require a certain kind of affection certain kind of love and that is interfered with by much more occupation with me me. So asita is something that we really need to understand. We are separating ourselves from the whole ocean of being by identifying myself with one drop of it. So here then we see that the connection between the seer and the scene causes a mistaken perception of identity. Now again I know this is a very strong streak in India and I keep alerting you if you take something seriously you need to really question it precisely because I take the Indian tradition very seriously I question it so that I can assist its purification it cleansing because it's absolutely inevitable everywhere this is actually almost the law of time Krishna even speaks about it in the Bhagat Gita that I taught this very yoga in the beginning but because of the ravages of time it has been lost. it is inevitable and so therefore one needs to question the tradition but it's a very strong streak in the Indian tradition also ends up entering into the theosophical society sadly from my point of view that as if what we need to do is to separate the sear from the scene which literally in this context will mean to separate purusha from procrai so that the spirit is completely separated from the body. This is not at all the intention of Patanjali in the yoga sutra as I will just show you specific sutras. Well, first of all before I go there again Padangi [clears throat] identifies aidya ignorance as the main source of all these problems. This is throughout the Indian tradition. I personally don't know any sage in India or any text in India which says otherwise namely that ignorance is the source of all our difficulties and problems and predicaments and so Patanjali is basically following the same tradition here and then he says with the disappearance of ignorance this misidentification no longer exists. The pure then pure seeing alone remains not the seer separated from the seen which is a very strong tendency as if I need to get rid of the body and become pure spirit. There is no such suggestion in Patangali yoga sutras and again very strong idea that what is required is discernment. This Sanskrit word is vic. Sometimes it is translated as discrimination to be able to discriminate between one thing or another between truth and falsity for example. But the word discrimination in contemporary English has acquired slightly other slightly other meanings also. So I advise you to come to the word discernment as maybe a more proper at least in contemporary usage a more proper translation of this. So Vive is the way to overcome ignorance. Now this is extremely important for me to keep emphasizing religions everywhere. More organized they become more they get to this tendency. Keep emphasizing faith. There is no such emphasis in the classical texts of yoga pad yoga sutras or the Bhagat Gita. These are the two texts that I would more because I have wrestled with them for many years. I can keep speaking about them more and more. These are classical texts of yoga. To be sure there is a Sanskrit word called shreddha which can be translated as faith but it means many other things. It means respect, confidence, trust and padi does in passing for example in the 30th sutra in the first chapter does mention shreddha but there is no yoga of faith. There is yoga of action, yoga of knowledge, yoga of love, yoga of meditation. Nobody mentioned any yoga of faith. Faith is generally something that interferes with search. Now we [clears throat] don't need to be against faith. As I even said last time as well, we don't need to be against anything. There are there is a kind of faith which can actually help search or research. As an example, all the great scientists or even minor ones have a faith that there is order in the universe. Now this can't be proved [clears throat] but it assists them. Furthermore, the additional faith is that their research will help reveal that order. So that faith is very helpful in assisting research. But most religions talk about faith that does not assist spiritual search. So we need to be very careful about this. Yoga is not a religion. It is a discipline, a practice for transformation. It's the science per excellence of transformation and there va or discernment or knowledge gan we will come back to that later on also are the important features but don't need to be against faith if it assists search for example I have a faith that what the Buddha said or Christ said actually has profound meaning even though I don't understand what they are really saying maybe when I grow up or when I mature I will be able to understand something so that is a matter of faith but it assists my search so don't be against faith but don't easily buy it don't easily buy anything that anybody says including me Here we are. The any notion that we need to separate the sear and the scene would be very surprising to Patanjali because as he explicitly says and here is the sutra, the scene is for the sake of the seer. Perhaps just to put other words here would be helpful. The body is for the sake of the spirit. Procrariti is for the sake of purusha. That does not mean they need to be separated. In India, it is said that even the das or the gods or the angels will have to be born in a human body to make further spiritual progress. So why why do we have a body just purely accidentally? Any serious teaching including the yoga sutras will tell you that the body is necessary. In fact I quoted this last time from Ishwar Krishna who is the author of Sananka which is more or less the sort of sisterly discipline of yoga. Sanka and yoga are commonly coupled together in the Bhagat Gita also very much. And there he explicitly says that pura without prcarriti is lame and prcarriti without pura is blind. They need to come together. Why should I be born in this body if it is completely pointless? The whole spiritual domain everywhere would say that the spirit for its own purposes needs a body that's why it comes into my body. So if the body does not serve the spirit then it's not doing anything useful from the spirit point of view. So it's not that the body is unnecessary or the scene in this particular expression of padanjali. No, both the seen and the sear are required. The body is necessary but not the most important thing. It needs to be finding its proper place with respect to the spirit. I should also here perhaps little bit going back here the suggestion about the power of seeing. This is this can hardly be overemphasized. The whole project of a spiritual discipline is to be able to assist us to see more and more subtly. Just to remind you this is a remark of St. Paul. Eyes of the flesh see the things of the flesh. Eyes of the spirit the things of the spirit. So we need to develop slightly different eyes. Eyes of the flesh can be extended enormously with all kinds of fancy telescopes and microscopes but they still remain eyes of the flesh. You cannot see an angel with those instruments. Do we dismiss Christ or Moses or the Buddha who could see angels? They have different eyes. There is only one of the very few remarks of Christ which you can find in all the canonical gospels and also in prophet Isaiah also in one letter of St. And that remark is you have eyes but you do not see. You have ears but you do not hear. The whole program of any spiritual discipline including yoga is to be able to assist us to open our subtler or spiritual eyes so we can see what we do not ordinarily see. And we have a classical example of this in the Bhagat Gita when after much transformation of Arjuna already having taken place Krishna shows his great form to him. Arjuna is unable to see. So Krishna actually says to him you cannot see me with your ordinary eyes. Therefore I will give you divine eyes. The Sanskrit expression isaku dic eyes or divine eyes. So it's very important to understand this that what is at issue here is cleansing of perceptions and we have the lovely remark of William Blake when the doors of perception are cleansed everything is seen as it is infinite. This is very important. Cleansing of the perception actually enhances the mystery. One realizes that everything is wonderful and cannot be captured. We have ancient upanishes says unless it is wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, it cannot be holy. It is actually the mark of any serious spiritual experience that it surprises the experiencer. Otherwise, the mind is always projecting something or the other. sooner or later it manages to see it in its own way. So this remark of William Blake is useful to think about that when the eyes [clears throat] are cleansed or the perception is cleansed one sees everything as it is infinite. More and more a state of unknowing not of ignorance but one is open to whatever may come and it becomes grander and grander more and more mysterious. So the scene which is we could say prrariti or the body is for the sake of the seer pura or the spirit. And here we have another emphasis on gan and re gan just to translate this would be knowledge. Mossis is the Greek cognate of the word gan. And and here we can see again very much emphasis on serious subtle knowing and discernment. That is the emphasis of any serious spiritual teaching. Then one can think of love. Otherwise unless there is some appropriate action and knowledge to think of love simply becomes sentimental. Which is why just to quickly to remind you for the first six chapters in the Bhagat Gita Krishna does not even once mention the yoga of love or bacti yoga. He simply speaks about kam yoga and ghan yoga. Yoga of action and yoga of knowledge. not ordinary knowledge, sacred knowledge or subtle knowledge as in the word of nosis. So a vidya as we earlier said here is just the contrary of vidya or of of ghan or va [clears throat] and that is of course really the if you like outcome of the power of apasma the demon of forgetfulness. The very fact that I forget what I am in fact is the source of abunda. Then Patanjali [clears throat] very much speaks about other limbs of yoga which is another reason by the way why yoga is sometimes called or Patangra yoga is called ashtanga yoga. Ashtang literally means eight limbs. So these are the eight limbs of yoga that he mentions which is another good reason to remember that yoga is not simply standing on one leg or s in a nut position or in a lotus position or some other position. Um that is very preliminary elementary yoga. [laughter] And one doesn't need to be against it. The body is necessary and [snorts] it needs to be in good shape. I will come back to this in a moment here. But let me first of all remind you here there are eight limbs and I have them here both in Sanskrit words and more or less English translation. Yum nam these are two ways of saying something that one should not do sort of do and not do. So yum and nam yum is something that one should restrain from. Nam is something that one should try to practice. Then asana alignment is the translation that I have given here sometimes translated posture. I'll come back to this in a moment. Pranayama regulation of breath. Pratyahar which is withdrawal of the senses. Dharana which will be more or less concentration. Dana is generally translated as meditation and samadhi which is really free attention free of me me. This is what I earlier had quoted again. I will come back to this. This is the third sutra in the third chapter. But he describes samadhi as suruky free of the self. Very interesting remark of Krishna Morti. As long as I am, love is not not an easy thing to realize. I am of course there. One needs to exist. But am I the center? As long as it is occupied with me, me me, there can be no love. And it is the freedom from the self. That is what samadhi is. And that is the aim of yoga. As I have said several times already, let's quickly look at the yamas and the nyamas. The first yama, the Sanskrit word may be useful here. Most people know this. You can even find this in standard English dictionaries these days. is the word aimsa which is almost always translated as nonviolence and here I'm giving this translation as nonviolation. Now obviously given our limited time I cannot really speak about all of these things in any detail but I [snorts] might choose one or two things here otherwise I'll have to refer you to to my book on the yoga sutras but [snorts] a hensa especially with the influence of Mahatma Gandhi somehow got very much associated with physical nonharming which is very strange the Supreme Court of Canada unfortunately has many many cases in which usually it's women who feel sexually harassed but there is no physical harming. There is no sign of a torn skirt. There is no bruises, nothing but they're still harassed. Gandhi made it all really very cheap. He himself was actually not at all nonviolent because if one understands supposing I say to somebody unless you marry me I'm going to commit suicide what am I doing? I'm blackmailing a person. I am [clears throat] violating a person. So in many of these cases in our courts the women feel violated even though there is no sign of physical harming. So ainsa is a much stronger practice. It is against any kind of manipulation blackmailing violating a person not only just physically harming somebody. So I it's hard to find an appropriate English word for this. So I use the word nonviolation here. So similarly each of these things need to be understood with much more subtlety than unfortunately the ordinary language allows you to do this. But I quickly want to move on with the nyamas. My time is going to be very limited here. And here I especially want to draw your attention to two things. First of all, the last three nyamas which are mentioned here, you can see quickly tapas, swadhai and ishwar pranadhan. These were also mentioned as the [clears throat] activities of yoga by Patanjali in the first sutra of the second chapter. So very much emphasis on these three and I now won't say very much more about it. You can go back to the if you wish. This was the second webinar I essentially devoted to these three things. But the other thing I want to also draw your attention to is this expression of contentment. The sense of the word is santo. I say that here because if you looked at look at the periodically great philosophers or theologians even would have a list of virtues. It's interesting to me that in the western tradition generally you can even look at Plato for example great philosophers contentment is not considered a particularly high virtue. In India it is regarded very highly and here is an example of this. There is a a shadow side of contentment. It can interfere with the spirit of exploration. You see everything has it shadow. One has to realize very great enunciations of the very great teachers and sages can have [snorts and clears throat] their shadow side. And so you can be just easily contented with something. So you don't need to explode for something. You don't need to question. So that is the dangerous side of it. On the other hand, it's useful to remember that in Indian tradition, it's very strongly recommended contentment or santo is the Sanskrit word for it. Now asa is often translated as posture and most of the people practicing yoga as far as I can see even in India and not only in North America they are just doing asas this might surprise people I don't want to name names here some of you are very highly regarded as or yoga teachers who have Except the many many thousands of organizations around the world they had very little interest in any meditation which is what is mainly interested in but asa first of all to again remind you these two classical texts of yoga namely the Bhagat Gita and the yoga sutras don't mention any asa by name that's not their interest and you can see here asa is accompanied by steadiness and ease and this is attained when there is complete relaxation and union with the infinite then one is no longer assailed by opposing dualities. So strictly speaking except at the very highest level of God himself or the absolute if you use another language or Brahma, we cannot really have the right ASA simply because the complete relaxation is not possible except at the highest level simply because there are varieties of different laws operating. But in any case that's the direction. [clears throat] So an asa a posture or personally I actually recommend the translation is alignment because we also have intellectual postures. If I can remind myself that even if I had a combined intelligence of Einstein, Newton, Shankara, Aristotle and Nagarjana, even then I cannot know all there is to know. That is a mental attitude. That is a posture that would then allow me not to be capturing everything with my rational mind. It would allow me to to realize that there are great mysteries. How to celebrate the mysteries? which is the reason for reminding again and again that asa is not only a physical posture. It is also a mental and an emotional posture. In fact, it might interest some of you who know French. The French word for posture is attitude that already conveys partly what I'm trying to convey. What is my attitude to anything? That is part of my alignment to the whole vastness of reality. How am I aligned towards it? Am I trying to capture it in my little mind or am I open to the great mystery and celebrating it? So asa has many of these other meanings connected with it. But it is important on the other hand to realize as Pratani obviously realizes that awakening of the body is as necessary as the compassionate heart and insightful mind. And here is a remark of the Buddha that I very much recommend to you to read carefully. There is one thing that when cultivated and regularly practiced leads to deep spiritual intention, to peace, to mindfulness and clear comprehension, to vision and knowledge, to a happy life here and now, and to the culmination of wisdom and awakening. And what is that one thing? It is mindfulness centered in the body. It is extremely important for us to realize that any notion that the body is unnecessary that we can get rid of it we don't need to take care of it is completely silly body is the instrument of the spirit or to use St. Paul's lovely expression, it's the temple of the spirit. So to take care of the body and to actually recognize the importance of it, it is the right it can be the right instrument also. It can be the wrong instrument or one can wholly occupy get occupied with shining the instrument and not doing anything with it and just making sure that the instrument is sharp but that's it. But otherwise there is a great emphasis on finding the right attitude, right posture, right alignment. In fact, in some Zen practice, particularly the very famous Zen teacher Dogen, he's often called rather than Doan Roshi, Dogen Zenzi, which is meaning a great Roshi. He used to actually say that posture is all that all Zen is about posture, having a right posture. So there is no need to be in any sense to be against the body but to actually recognize that the body is meant to serve something. It's not because it's obvious it's going to die. And if it is serving only itself only its own needs then it is not really the reason by which for which the spirit has taken on this body. time is limited so I'm going to continue with this. So then pranayama now pranayyama is not so much a control of breath as it is occasionally translated. It is really more to do with regulation of breath. And really the greatest pranayama is simply to watch the breathing taking place. And as I have already said earlier, whatever I pay attention to, inevitably changes in its quality and in its relationship with me. I am breathing just like you all the time. In general, I'm not aware of my breathing. If and when I become aware of it, the quality of my breathing will change and it will have a different effect on my body. That is the absolutely the most significant pron. But then of course one can also watch when one stops breathing or how long one holds this and that. All kinds of variations can be made on it. But also the word breath in contemporary English does not quite convey the kind of [snorts] depth that the Chinese word chi or the Sanskrit word prana still more or less manages to convey. which is to say that it is actually the connecting link between all levels of reality. It is not just ordinary air that we are talking about. We it is actually a whole spectrum of energy prana [clears throat] just as chi. In fact, just to remind you this is from the book of Genesis 6th chapter. God created human beings from the earth. Sometimes it is said from the dust. Different translation created them from the earth and then [clears throat] he breathed his own breath into them to make them alive. The very fact that we are alive means we have a breath of God into us. And this is how we recognize when a baby is born that the baby is going to live when he or she begins to breathe. And when a person stops breathing, that's the end. This may not be the technical definition of death. But for any other purposes, this is the fundamental reality. The fact that breathing is taking place means that one is alive. And as I just quoted from the go from the Bible book of Genesis, it is an indication that one [clears throat] is alive because there is a connecting link between right from God to the earth to the matter to the body and therefore the whole question of pranayama needs to be taken much more seriously and we need to understand and it essentially regulates ation of breathing. Actually the oldest brother actually say Brahma prana is Brahma which is the highest reality. It's the label for the very highest reality. There is also very story in chandog which might amuse you. You know the various organs in the body are beginning to argue with each other who is more important. So the eyes say well if I go away then you won't be able to see anything. So the ears say oh you can't really hear anything etc etc. So the prana says to them okay you decide I'm going away. Then they all say to him please don't go for the [clears throat] obvious reason that prana is without prana neither the eye nor the ear or anything else will work. So prana Brahma is the expression in Sanskrit from one of the operations which means prana is Brahma. Okay. The next limb of yoga is pratahar which is the withdrawal of the senses. This is a very very important aspect to understand and the classical analogy that is given in India generally about this is like the tortoise withdraws all its senses. Bhagat Gita also uses this analogy. The important thing here to actually to see is this. Let me make this as a may seem like a dogmatic statement. So don't buy it easily but think about it. The mind does not experience anything. All experience is by the senses. Spiritual experience by internalized senses. You can close your eyes even and you can look within and you can say I see what is happening. I see that my mind is wandering off or that my mind is steady or that I have some feeling of resentment or anxiety or of compassion whatever I can close my eyes. It is to say it's the internalized sensation in internalized senses. In fact a very great sage in India Shrian died only in 1978 I had a great fortune to spend about half an hour with him and he made this remark that even the subtlest spiritual experiences are experienced as a sensation in the body. And I am now repeating this remark. The mind does not experience. Then it can see that I have experienced something internally. Then it can suggest some other experience. It's exactly the same in the sciences. There the senses are externalized. We don't accept anything as a measurement in science unless some external sense has actually noticed it. Let me make this remark again and you need to think about it. This is really the whole emphasis of pratahara. Why I need to withdraw my senses so that my internalized senses can become sharper and sharper that I become not only more and more sensitive to what is going on in my body but that I can experience subtler and subtler experiences that the mind is not the experiencer which is also the reason why there is so much emphasis Patri the very second sutra in the first chapter that the mind needs to be quiet. The yoga yoga is stopping all the movements of the mind. Why? So that the mind is not interfering with the experiencing by the internalized senses. This is actually I know I'm of course speaking about the yoga sutras and which is a great emphasis there. All the great mystics in the world would emphasize this but it might also interest you to know here I'm going to quote to you this is Psalm 46. Be still and know that I am. Sometimes they add I am God. That is just added just to make it sentence but simply that's all it says. And then Exodus this is chapter 14. The Lord will fight for [snorts] you. You need only be still. We don't actually realize the importance and the significance of the still mind. Perception of a still mind according to all the great spiritual teachers is the only perception worth bothering about. Otherwise the mind has this knowledge that knowledge. We don't need to be against any of that. But as I have earlier quoted from Patanjali himself that the kind of knowledge we may still use the word knowledge because we don't have other words in English that the kind of knowledge which is obtained in the still mind is of a very different quality. It is not what we ordinarily would regard scientific or philosophical or scriptural knowledge. Okay, let me continue. Then we have by the way Patangjali says that these previous five limbs of yoga that he has described so far [clears throat] are relative to the remaining three external limbs. Now we are speaking slightly more internally. Dhana is holding the mind in one place. I am still there but I focus my mind. It's like bringing a a flashlight into a a dark room. It doesn't show me the connection between various things but I can look at one thing sharply. On the other hand, Aar Patanjali had also described this that there is um I am still there but the object is there more and more and it is he says the uninterrupted flow of awareness towards the object of attention. Often this word gets translated as meditation. I should quickly mention here as a historical remark when Buddhism went to China was not translated but was just pronounced in a Chinese way as chan. And then when from China Buddhism went to Korea it was pronounced as song and when it went to Japan from Korea it was pronounced as Zen. [clears throat] Zen is the Japanese pronunciation of the Korean pronunciation of the Chinese pronunciation of Dana. Might interest you to know this as a historical remark. So dha and dyani dyan are two different kinds of attention if you like in [snorts and clears throat] which it's a question of how much is being contributed by the observer and how much is being contributed by what is being observed or the seer and the scene. And then samadhi is if you like another form of attention. This we already had spoken about last time. [clears throat] Samati is the state when the self is not when there is awareness only of the object of meditation as if I am completely out of the way. This is why it is said to be the most objective knowledge that the subject is completely out of the way. Not so easy. But it is good to to keep this in mind. What is the direction or what is the aim of Patanjali yoga sutras? And then uh maybe I have to rush a little bit here. Let me draw your attention to that the combination of these three things is what is called syum. I am translating this as total attention. It also literally means discipline. So the real discipline is a com combination of dhana dan and samadhi. Then Patanjali says that the illumination of insight results from the mastery of this. In fact if we are having a whole project these days about how science needs to be extended. We need extended scientists or more transformed scientists to do real science. But part of that is my project there is to indicate that why is yoga not a science. It requires precisely the kind of scientific research but it has a different direction. Patanjali for example takes the very universal idea that the small microcosmos that I am every human being is can in principle mirror the whole large cosmos. The two sensitive words are the whole cosmos is called Brahmand or the egg of Brahma and a human being is called Brahmand a small Brahman, a small egg of Brahma. So that they can mirror each other. Therefore, Padangjali's way of doing natural science is to see what inside me can actually mirror what I need to study outside and by bringing total attention to that by bringing sy. Now this may surprise people but this is why one is always amazed why some of these ancients could produce amazing results that [snorts] completely wow us even now. How could they know this? Even a tribe in Mali which people regard as savages were speaking about one of the stars which was not even discovered by the scientists until hardly about 25 years ago in the Andromeda galaxy. So there we are. How do they know all this? We could dismiss all this but to me this will be really short changing ourselves. So my time is carrying ahead. So let me proceed here. Again very strong emphasis that Gan born of Vive is liberating, comprehensive, eternal and freed of time sequence. The knowledge which is created by Vive discernment is all these aspects. This is the great knowledge. And furthermore, very strong suggestion that it is freed of time sequence because the ordinary mind cannot think without time. In fact, Emanuel Kant before that Aristotle even speaks in terms of 12 categories of thought. It requires 12 aspects coming from the mind. Space, time, causality, quantity, etc. I don't even remember now what the 12 are, but time is certainly one of them. Which is why it completely surprises people to come across a remark like this. For example, Christ saying before Abraham was I am. Time does not have the same meaning or relevance for him. And then of course the very next verse in that chapter is quoted here. Then they picked up stones to throw at Jesus but he hid himself and slipped out of the temple precincts which will be one of the siddhis of yoga described by Patangjali in the third chapter making himself disappearing. So we need to understand that the kind of knowledge which is being spoken about is altogether a different kind of thing and the highest state of consciousness is called cavalia. Uh which is so that deep in vive [clears throat] chitta which is the mind if you like or consciousness gravitates towards cavalia. Cavalia again is sometimes translated as loneliness. It is to be sure aloneeness but in the sense of Plutinus uses this expression movement of the alone to the alone. Alone meaning only one thing remains combination of seeing seer and seen observer and observed are together. Krishna Morti emphasized this all the time practically like a slogan and so we need to keep this in mind and here I'm suggesting these two exercises for you if you wish remaining in contact with the fact of breathing taking place open to the mystery do I breathe or am I being breathed another exercise if you wish to try how do you distinguish between freedom for myself and freedom from myself. What practical implications does this distinction have in life in your own life? And then I'm just drawing your attention to my fourthcoming book on the Bhagat Gita. It's coming out in the middle of May published by Shambala publications. You can see some details and some pre-publication reviews. particularly these theosophers will be interested that Joy Mills spoke very highly of this manuscript that I had sent to her on Amazon.com. You can read some of these things and I have been persuaded by Jim and Pablo to give four more webinars but the earliest I can do this in June. So you see that is written there June 3rd, 10th, 17th, and 24th. But we'll start at 10:00 a.m. Central time because my friends in India can then come at 8:30 p.m. And people in Switzerland, it will be only 5:30 p.m. for them. And in England, only 4:30. So it's not so bad. Not 4:30, it'll be actually 4:00 p.m. in England and 5:00 p.m. in Switzerland. Okay. Okay. Well, I wish you luck and [clears throat] I hope you don't take anything I say without questioning. This is absolutely important. If you take it seriously, you must question this. And then I have these two quotations here. One is of course really an invitation from Krishna. Be firm in yoga and arise. Then I am very fond of this remark of Matsuabasho, a great Japanese hike writer. Seek not to follow in the footsteps of the wise ones of old. Seek what they sought. God bless you. Bye-bye. Thank you Ravi and thank you everybody for participating in the webinar. Have a good weekend. Thank you.