Good evening everyone. It is a great honor to welcome Dr. Sua Adasha, a distinguished neurologist, educator, author and TEEDx speaker based in Dubai. She is known for her remarkable work in brain health, stroke care, migraine management and integrative neuroscience. Dr. Dr. Adasha is the founder of the economy brain and limitless brain lab and has inspired audiences across the world through more than 200 workshops, books and transformational programs. Her work beautifully bridges modern neuroscience with ancient wisdom to help people live healthier, smarter and more purposeful lives. Please join me in warmly welcoming Dr. Sua Adasha. I'm a neurologist but plumbing is not so much uh exciting as what it is to kindle the normal brain. So thank you so much for considering me for this opportunity to meet all of you wonderful people. Now as the world is also going through this crucial times I will start with a prayer and we all should I think uh pray before we start and that is called the coherence also called as the maha rishi effect. So wherever I see a group of people I always feel that uh we should pray together as many people will be praying together as much of benefit and peace that we will be able to give to our community at large. There's a very interesting data also which relates to when it comes to coherence. Uh how many of you and I'm going to make this a little interactive. I know there are 94 people around here but how many of you are aware about a project called GCP global consciousness project just raise your hand if somebody wants to talk about that uh project global consciousness project anybody any any anybody can raise their hands uh no okay anybody any any any other person any other takers global consciousness project so this is like a big huge computer. It is in United States. This computer throws random numbers. Every day there is random numbers which are thrown. But interestingly enough before a major event for example one of the major events was tsunami in Japan and the very famous event was when the twin towers were actually taken over by the flight. Right? We know that the twin towers were blasted just before a major event. There is congression that all the numbers come together and the randomness is lost not afterwards but the random numbers join before the event which means there is something happening in the thought processes even before that actual event has happened. So this is such an interesting psychosspiritual uh context that you know it always excites me and I always love what Nicola Tesla said that brain Since we'll talk about a little bit of brain uh today and women's brain particularly brain is not the source it is the receiver which means there is a higher consciousness there is higher power there is god whatever you call it and that is also working through this sophisticated instrument to make things possible so we'll start with a small prayer I want everybody to sit straight uh wherever you are take a deep breath the deeper the breath breath that you take you hit a vagus nerve which is the most powerful nerve in your body. Most people today suffer because this vagus tone has gone down. We have forgotten to activate this beautiful nerve which is right there all the way until the toe judging what is happening. What is happening? It is like a little you know taking all the accounting and then when it is calm quiet you feel better. So go ahead and activate this vas. Now take a deep breath, very deep breath as you can and very slowly, gently exhale through your mouth. And this you can do it again taking a deep breath and gently exhaling through the mouth. Just merely by doing this you can easily change your pulse to 10 to 15. You can easily increase 10% of your heart rate variability and you can drop your cortisone by 20%. Only three to four rounds of this has been shown to be doing this many changes. So we'll close our eyes and we take this moment all of us together in this room to first connect to our heart very gently softly listen to the heart beats. What is the heart talking to us? Is it fast? Is it slow? Is it just right? Just see the rhythm between your heart and your breath and your brain. This is the most important rhythm. And today from this heart we will be sending a pink energy which is the healing energy across as far as we can as far as we can. to all the members who have been suffering, who are part of this entire Middle East crisis, to our brothers, to our sisters across the globe, whoever is involved and affected by it. Our prayers, our sincere well-being requests from the higher consciousness is with them. Give your best shot out for that pink energy which is just flying out from your heart and wrapping this beautiful mother earth with that energy and just hug that little mother earth also and try to keep it into your heart. We have taken so much from the centuries. It's now our time to give back, our time to serve, our time to rise, and our time to claim the power not just as women, but as the human race. Let's pray that everybody has limitless health, wealth, and happiness. Take one more time. Deep breath and rub your palm. and slowly rub your eyes and you can relax. So I know all of you are from various fields. All of you are from what a beautiful talk by Dr. Jetti. I just joined in lovely amazing uh to see. But today from my side let us let us unfold the magic of women's brain. So uh first of all we'll do a little poll. How many of you think that women's brain and I do see some men no offenses but we are special today so we will be taking the this of women how many of you feel that women's brain are special just a raise uh just raise your hand okay how many of you think men's brain are special okay yes only one man I'm going to support you yes so when I asked about women's brain everybody is up there men's brain only one our gentleman vooter is uh voting for it. See, uh, evolutionary biology had some purpose of making women women and making men men, right? The evolution had some purpose in mind. Imagine just for a moment that everybody, all 8 billion people are women. What will happen? Will there be any excitement? And imagine 8 billion people all men. So the Shiva the men the masculine energy and chaki women the feminine energy were actually the source of the creation of this entire universe. Right? So we have to celebrate today not just the feminine energy or this because in each of us and you all are into yoga in one or other form in each of us we have the equal balance of the masculine energy and the feminine energy and that union that unitedness itself yoga itself is the purpose of all the practices that we do. Now some of us have a little more feminine energy and some of us have a little more masculine energy. But uh the entire purpose uh of the spiritual practices of all the uh religious practices whatever you do is just for this union. So today we will uh uncover only five important and interesting aspects of women's brain. Are we all game for that? Just five. Can you tell me what is the one special thing which is very commonly observed in women's brain like one very easily you can just figure it out that yeah outright women are good at that exceptionally good at that anybody wants to take a call on that just that one thing which is very obvious I think the hosts are not allowing you to unmute so yes maybe you can just type it in the chat maybe that will be What is that one thing which is immediately observed? Multitasking. Anvesa says that multitasking wonderful love, beautiful multi-processing. Okay. Multiple thinking, emotional, very good, loving and caring, wonderful, kindness, memory, calm, instinct of motherhood, beautifully said, expression, lovely, wonderful. I'm going to show you some of the data. All of you are right in all your forms and I am going to share some data. So wonderful, amazing. All of you are perfectly right in what you mentioned. Just before that just a little bit uh more about myself. Can you guys hear me now? Okay. >> Yes. Yes ma'am. Yes ma'am. We can hear you. >> Perfect. Perfect. Okay. So today is uh very short. In 10 minutes we'll find out what are these five powers that we as women possess. So we will be able to celebrate and of course learn and then rise as well. So I practice in Gash Hospital in Dubai but I'm extremely passionate about bridging science and spirituality somewhere in my life. Yes, all great gold medals and lots of accolades working with United Nations and best of universities, University of Cambridge intellectually bang everything. But a point in time came in my life with great unfortunate emotional trauma. You know it was like so deep. My very dear friend 25 years of a relationship, she was very very close to me. She was almost like my sister. You know, we grew up together. She leaves me one fine day on little small conflict and that emotional pain lasted for good three years. And that was the time when I first realized how the brain not just functions but how the brain can actually have you know you can just completely be off when you are not emotionally stable. And that led me to explore all the alternative techniques. Yoga, pranayam, the chakras, every other thing because I wanted to fix my emotional brain. Intellectual brain and emotional brains are two very distinct parts. And slowly with that thing when I started to realize that all the wisdom is lying in the ancient techniques, I started to bring it to the lab. I run a lab called limitless brain lab and I started to interview some of the top people. how have they done it in their life. Now I'm going to show some of the people uh whom you will recognize. This is how we do the brain mapping at the lab. And what we do is basically we want to understand how the brains are functioning. For example, Nicole, I really love her. She was the one who stood on Emirates, you know, the Bourj Khalifa with an Emirates advertisement. She had six months of an ICU and 14 fractures. After that she had the audacity to go ahead and do this amazing stunt standing on Bourj Khalifa. So I just you know wrote to her and said look I want to learn resilience from you. Can I just you know interview you and I had the opportunity to meet some of the top leaders in the region some musicians some fantastic memory champions and all that was just for my brain and I wanted to you know scan and do what best I can do for the brain and that led me to a lot of discoveries about the brain. So I'm very thankful to the pain that came to my life. So the first lesson for me was let's be grateful and gratitude that this pain led me to look at the brain from a completely different perspective. When I had scanned my brain uh it was in US serendipitously there was a romantic breakup study which was going on. I knocked the door and I said professor can you check my brain? He says you're not eligible you're not in the inclusion criteria. Yours was a childhood friendship. And I said, "I'll pay, you know, from my pocket." So they said, "It's $25,000." I said, "Doesn't matter. Please scan my brain." $25,000. I scan the brain and the professor puts the brain up. And the first time I felt, oh my god. Uh, he asked me, "Are you a neurologist?" I said, "I don't want to say I'm a neurologist because my brain is up there. I know what I'm feeling emotionally. What is going on?" And the guy is going to read my brain. What was found was that my brain was showing almost equivalent uh symptoms or perspectives which a heroine addict has. So the brain was the attachment which I had with my friend was almost like a heroine addict. Now I had never taken heroine at this and it was a clarion call for me. When I looked at that picture I told the professor I'll come back in a year's time and I know with all the ancient modalities I will be able to fix it. And the professor says no you go to a psychologist you go to a psychiatrist and I said I don't go to anybody I fix it and I come back you know and then I came back to Dubai started to do EEG electroansphilogram started to monitor the brain and then study every single yogi technique study sara yoga study all the uh aspects of ashtanga yog started to do very uh very very very serious pranayams and a couple of years you know like three to four hours I would spend doing my regular practices and after a year and a half there's nothing in the brain which was there prior and and the professor was shocked and everybody said how did this happen and this became sort of the igniting force for limitless brain labs. So I always love to share that yes we all go through emotional trauma we all go through these pain because as women we go through it more as somebody said but often there is always a light at the end of the tunnel so yes female brain is very special the power I'm going to disclose what is that power and that power all of us can harness it and yes we can be slightly more stressed as well as compared to the other I mean the men you know call as a man's brain. So this is an interesting fact that as women we have six and a half times more concentration in the language areas. So we do speak very well and sometimes we continue to speak and we don't stop and men does not have the capacity to uh have so much of uh speech you know so for them it's like a shut off you know and that's why in a conflict women always keeps talking and the men is not able to address that because that is what the women's brain is all about. Now two hemispheres right and left are connected very thickly 10 times greater fiber connections. Now, this will give them the ability for multitasking. I'm taking care of my kids. I answer a phone call. I also answer an email. Everything is happening. Now, to a man's brain, send him to a closet where his socks are kept. And the socks are lying just there, not even far off. He will not find it. He'll come back and say, "Where is it? Where is it?" You know, go and ask him to get a yogurt from a refrigerator, which is lying. Like, you can just see it. But man's brain will not be able to see. So they are mono focal. They work in a single pattern. But women can multitask. So this is the great power I think of connection that women has been offered and the language as well. Now this is most beautiful that as women we have both sides of the brain which is involved in empathy. We call it insula which is active and that's why we are more emotionally intelligent. So both sides of the insula is active for women and we also have a lot of social intuition. We quickly feel what is happening around us. And the verbal fluency which means the ability to speak verbally and recall the memory is 12% faster 12% faster than the contemporary males. Just this is mindblowing. See how beautifully women were given these abilities as a part of nature's mechanism. Now this is also very interesting that we as women has a slightly basic advantage in stress resilience as well. We we love we have care compassion. Somebody said in the chat because of this our oxytocin levels are also on the higher side and that's why we have a basic underlying protection mechanism as well. When too much of stress comes in men cannot handle but women has the beautiful ability to handle that as well. The cortisol the bad hormone in stress when it is rising high that is what the problem comes in. You know a lot of people suffer because of that. In women there are some special mitochondria. Mitochondria is the powerhouse, the storehouse of energy. Now if we connect mitochondria to our ancient wisdom, it is that shaky. It is that power. It is basically the force. It is that reason by which all of us are living. So it is always the shy, the X and the X chromosome. It was always at the start. The Y came in and that's why a male was born. But it was that original mitochondrial power which we always had. And this cortisol spike can be buffered with 25% higher in women as compared to men. This is an amazing protection which we as women have been having evolutionally. And this mitochondria, it just blows my mind when I read about it that in a woman's brain, in a cell of a brain, in a cell of a woman's brain compared to the cell of the man's brain, there is 30% more mitochondria. So that energy is much more and the power source is much more and that's why we call it the vitality and the feminine energy and it's always flowing. It's always the power. It's always the energy source because mitochondria is much more than a male cell. Now this these are all very interesting factors what we as women need to be proud about and also use it effectively because this is what makes us special as well. Now uh in the yogic uh anatomy in the yogic processes also it is so important that unless and until we connect to our core identity or core self and core energy we cannot explore anything outside. So it is always inside out that yoga also teaches us and this power every single power that we have been given. We should be a proud about it, b we should be utilizing it for our favor and we should not be you know uh losing that and currently as the data as we speak more and more chances of women getting Alzheimer's is rising there is a lot of women suffering from per menopausal problems between the age of 45 and 55 the main headlight of the brain called preontal cortex is showing the shrinking there is a lot of women with PCOD the rising rates are just astronomical lots of infertility now all this is happening because we have screwed up completely our lifestyle and if I were to say what is the best way to fix our health is to just fix your entire days routine and the chronobiological experts have now proved that the first five minutes when you spend spend with the sun. We used to do good old days the surya ara the first five minutes with the sun will set your entire 16 hours right. So your melatonin at night which allows you to sleep rest everything will fix only if you do first five minutes in the sunlight. Now that sunlight is also giving a entropy or an energy to your mitochondria. So many things which are interlin and then having uh of course the fixed bedtime and all these are routine stuff which we all have to do it as a yum and nam. We all know the eight limbs of the yoga unless and until we practice it daily consistency will only wire our brains. So if we want to change our reality, we want to embrace the power that we have without getting emotionally hurt, without getting emotionally involved, without getting you know all these problems that I just spoke about from hormones. We have to arise, we have to be awake and we have to do all the right things for daily life. So all the best to all of you.