Hello everyone, hope all are doing well. In today's session, we are going to discuss about international day for yoga which is to be celebrated on 21st of June every year. And this year in 2025, it marks the 11th anniversary of this global celebration. Every year this date celebration has a different theme and this year it is to be yoga for one earth one health. This theme emphasizes the interconnections of individual well-being and the health of our planet. Thus highlighting how yoga can contribute to both. It was announced by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his monkey bath radio broadcast. Now let's see its history and significance. The idea of celebration was proposed by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi during its speech at UN General Assembly in the year 2014 September recognizing the universal appeal and holistic benefits of yoga. The United Nations General Assembly officially proclaimed June 21st as the International Day of Yoga on December 11, 2014 with a record of 177 member co-states co-sponsoring the resolution and the first day of yoga was celebrated on 21st June 2015 and it has become now a global moment. Now let's try to find out why exactly on 21st of June. This date was chosen because it is the summer solstice in northern hemisphere the longest day of the year. It holds special significance in many parts of the world and it's seen as a time of spiritual awakening and renewal making it an ideal day to celebrate the practice of yoga which aims to harmonize the body, mind and spirit once. Now let's try to find out what exactly is meant by yoga. The word yoga is derived from Sanskrit and means to join or to unite symbolizing the union of body and consciousness or individual consciousness with the universal consciousness. Now let's see its benefits. The celebration aims to raise awareness worldwide about the numerous benefits of practicing yoga which include improved physical health, flexibility, strength, balance, posture, mental well-being like reduce stress, anxiety, depression, improved clarity and focus as well spiritual growth and a sense of inner peace. This International Yoga Day serves as a powerful reminder of yoga's ability to unite people across cultures and backgrounds in a shared pursuit of health, harmony, and peace. Wishing everyone a very happy international yoga and expecting everyone to include it in their schedule. Thank you.