Good evening everyone. Thank you for joining us today. uh we are waiting for his excellency ambassador to arrive shortly before we start the program. So I request everyone to kindly wait for a while. Thank you. structure. This is Christmas Look Here we go. Hallelujah. His Excellency, Mr. Shivi George, Ambassador of India to Japan. Ladies and gentlemen, a very good evening to one and all. We are gathered here today for a very special occasion to celebrate the success of the international day of yoga 2025. Today is about gratitude celebration and a tribute to all of you for your remarkable contributions. To begin with, please enjoy a short video highlighting the initiatives taken by BCC, Embassy of India, Tokyo to take yoga to every corner of Japan. [Music] Hey. [Music] Ah. Ah. Hey, sound. I found [Music] [Laughter] Yeah. Mhm. [Music] Mat. [Music] [Applause] Thank you for Thank you. Now it is our great honor to invite his excellency Mr. Shivi George, Ambassador of India to Japan to deliver his address on this special occasion. Please come up to the stage sir. Good evening. We saw that we saw the beautiful yoga events we held all over Japan under the cherry blossom on the river side beaches, mountains, Mount Fuji near the military exercises on ships. It's beautiful, isn't it? Yeah. So when I say that there are 8% of 10 8% of Japanese who practice yoga regularly and my target is 80% I think we can achieve it. [Applause] So we thought it is very important for us to immediately after our IDY 2025 uh organize a small get together to celebrate the wonderful event that we had in which each one of you have contributed immensely in making it a grand success. It was indeed a very successful event. Of course, with the participation of so many of yoga enthusiasts, I'm told that more than 2,000 people participated and people were waiting outside who couldn't come to the uh main uh platform to perform. And I am also very grateful to the leadership of Japan where Madame uh Ishiva herself had participated as the chief guest and uh inaugurated our yoga festival and also of course the Madame Iaya the spouse of the foreign minister also was present there as a guest of honor. So it was a wonderful event. So I wanted to thank each one of you and rededicate ourselves to make it forward take it forward so that our target of 80% is achieved if not this year not next year at least in the next 10 years. So it's a it's a flow it's a momentum we need to keep up maintain and I also wanted to thank uh our yoga uh tic Dr. Sanjay Kumar is he here? Yes, he's here. So, we wanted to thank So, if you look at all that photographs which were shown, if there is one common face, it is his face. So, I wanted to thank him for all the uh things he has done here during his 10 three years here. So, I wanted to thank him also for that on this event. So thank you once again for coming and let us continue to celebrate yoga in India Japan relations. Thank you. Thank you very much sir. May I ask you remain on the stage for felicitation please? So now may I request his excellency ambassador to present the felicitation to Dr. Sanjay Kumar for his outstanding service and dedication as a yoga teacher in the Embassy of India, Tokyo. Thank you very much. Thank you. Now may I request his excellency ambassador to kindly present a token appreciation to the yoga organizations who have supported the international day of yoga and other initiative to promote yoga in Japan. First I invite Maharishi Institute of Japan please come up the stage to receive certificate please. Next I invite yoga organization of Japan. Thank you. [Applause] So now yes, yoga organization of Japan [Applause] Now next uh international yoga center. [Applause] Next, physical yoga promotion association, please come to the stage. [Applause] Next, I invite Japan Yoga Therapy Society. [Applause] Next I invite Patanjali Japan Foundation. [Applause] Let's [Applause] go. Thank you very much. Thank you for all your dedication and thank you very much. Next, may I now request his excellency ambassador to kindly facitate the yoga students of BCC classes who have extended their support during various outreach yoga events organized by the embassy of India Tokyo. Now we call upon the students. students who have supported as demonstrators on different events. So firstly, Miss Kaho Matsyama, please come up to the stage. Kaho Matsyama. [Applause] Miss Masayo Mori. Metaru Jab Javi Miss Lena Bhandali, [Applause] Mr. Tadas To [Applause] Miss Ayakos Suzuki [Applause] Mr. Aluma Sivan [Applause] [Applause] Now I call upon Miss Auka Gond who has supported interpretation at the various yoga events and also Japanese translation of all class notes of VCC yoga classes. Please come up stage Mr. Asca Gonda. Okay. So next I call Mr. Paragumar who has supported with typing all class material and graphics of VCC yoga classes. [Applause] [Applause] Thank you very much all your dedication and the support. Thank you very very very much. Thank you everyone. Thank you. Now next Dr. Sanjay Kumar will offer a chair yoga session. So everyone please enjoy his session. [Music] Good evening everyone. First of all we'll do a prayer then we will start our practices from mudra. Close your eyes mind body. Pray to God. May we move in harmony. May we speak in unison. Let our mind be uniform and divinity manifest in all our endeavors. Oh, shye. [Music] Rais your palms and shoulders whole body feel the divine effect of this prayer. Please open your eyes on this special occasion. I would like to give you five golden principles that is very important for everyone for your good health, peace, happiness and divinity. Always keep in mind five points. First is sanjamit aa control your diet. Take balanced diet on time. Don't do overeating. There are many things about diet but I can't discuss all the things but only keep in mind take balanced diet on time. Second is sanjamit bihar well-managed lifestyle. Many problems are created due to sedentary lifestyle. So please do your all work on time. Manage your daily routine. Take at least 7 to 8 hours of proper sleep at night. Control on your sense organs. Third is regular practice of yog. It is very important for your good health, for your stamina, for your energy level, for your peace of mind. Very very important. Do at least at least half an hour of yogic practices at least namaskar and pranamas every day. Fourth is suadhya, self-study. Go through such type of literatures or scriptures that can improve the quality of our life that can purify our mind. What we think that we do, what we do that we become. All our thoughts are regulated. All our behaviors, all our activities are regulated by our thoughts. Selfie study purifies our thoughts. And last is fifth is meditation. Continuity of continuity of concentration is meditation. Meditation removes all our mental problems. Improves our mental capabilities. Provides us mental relaxation. mental peace. When we will be mentally healthy, we will be also physically healthy. The meditation provides us mental and physical health. Meditation is the process of transferring the qualities. We acquire virtuous qualities, divine qualities through meditation. When we acquire divine qualities, we become normal to extraordinary. We become normal to divine. And what the problem the sufferings which we face in our life that all are the result of results of our bad past. Only through meditation we can remove the bad effect of our past. All the scriptures bedas up Gita Ramayan Mahabharata Simat Bhagatya all all scriptures suggest only through meditation we can remove the bad effect of our past and we can make our present and future bright and happy. So meditation is very very important. So these five points are very important for your good health, peace, happiness and divinity. First is control diet. Second is well managed lifestyle. Third is regular practice of yoga. Fourth is selfie study and fifth is meditation. Please keep these five points in your mind and try to follow as much as possible in your day life. Now we will do some yogic practices on chair. Sometimes we have no time to do yogic practices on yoga mat. So we can do some yogic practices on chair. We can do in our office at our home at any place on chair you can do these practices. Okay. First of all we will do tarasana tarasana half palm tree pose. This asa gives good stretch on our upper body part. Everyone please be ready. [Music] Stretch your hands upward with inhalation. Stretch your body upward. Feel the stage on your spine in vertebral column, on your abdomen, on your chest, on your hands, on your whole body. Stretch your body upward. Keep your breath normal. Exhalation slowly. When in this way, we should do at least three times. Then next is ard chandrasa half moon pose. This asa gives good stretch on our side muscles. Keep your left hand at the edge of the chair. Raise your right hand and your palm raise with exhalation. Bend left. Inhalation slowly come back. Now raise your left hand. Bend the palm. Raise with exhalation. Bend right. Come back. Next practice is front twisting. This asa gives a good uh twisting effect on our spine and vertebral column, pelvic spine, on our abdomen, chest. See the practice. We come forward. We keep our right hand on the left knee and we keep our left hand on the back of the chair and we twist our body left with the we look back. The twisting effect of this asa with inhalation slowly come back. Now keep your left hand on the right knee. Keep your right hand on the back side of the chair. And with exhalation, twist your body at your waist. Turn right. Slowly come back. Next practice is marary asana ki stretch pose. This asa gives good stretch good massage on our back muscles on our spinal vertebral column and removes the problem of back pain and slip this psychic and very good and also provides us mental relaxation. Actually our spinal cord is directly connected to our brain. Due to good massage of our spinal cord we get soothing effect. Our brain get soothing effect by this practice. Everyone keep your palms on your knees. Everyone come on the chair. Feel better see the practice first. With inhalation we stretch our body back like this. And with exhalation we stretch our body forward. We bring our head. With inhalation we stretch your body back. With exhalation your body forward. Bend your head back. Relax. It is one round. In this way we should do three or five rounds. Next practice is the variation of hustanasana raised arm pose and padastasana hand to hip pose. See the practice first. Feet little apart. We keep our hands in the middle of the legs. With inhalation, we have to bend at our waist like this. And we exhalation. We bend forward. Back forward to the floor. Again, bend back at your waist. Going forward in this way. We should do at least three to five rounds. Now we will do laughter yoke. Okay. Yeah. Laughter yog removes all our mental problem provides us mental relaxation that removes the cardiovascular problems hypertension and uh when we laugh endorphins hormone is secretary our brain that indicates our overall wellbeing. Okay everyone please do like me and laugh like me. Okay don't hesitate. Yes we should we should laugh anyway. Okay we should not think anything means we should not hesitate in laughing. Yes. Everyone stretch your hands. Yes. Feel that there are two glasses of milk in our hand. Two glasses of milk. Okay. It is milk after you. First of all, we will make the milkshake. And before drinking, we have to laugh aloud. Okay. Yes. First of all, we will mix the milk. Yes. Everyone please do like me and speak like me. Okay. [Music] Speak. Everyone. Hey. [Laughter] Yeah. [Applause] Okay. So every every day make milkshake okay and laugh like this okay now we'll do brahi pranama humming deep bre this panama activates each and every nerve of our brain provides us mental relaxation removes all our mental problem provides us mental relaxation see the pract yes laugh laugh like her see the practice we close our ears with our Close our eyes. Inhale deeply. Create loud sound and feel the vibration of that sound in your brain. This is a practice. I know everyone knows but see again. [Music] Everyone please do it five times. Each time deep inhale. Start. [Music] [Music] Please keep your eyes closed. Both arms in chutra. We will do a very short meditation. Please chant one time with me. Take a promise mentally to do any noble work. Concentrate yourself on your breath. You are inhaling. You are exhaling. With inhalation, mentally chant. So, with exhalation, mentally chant. So means what you are. means that I am. It means I am the part of supreme soul. I am the part of supreme god. You are not physical body. You are the eternal soul and the part of the supreme god. Weapons cannot cut the soul. Fire cannot burn it. Water cannot moisten it. Air cannot write. You are the eternal soul and the power of the supreme god. With this feeling do swam sad meditation with inhalation mentally and soul with Exhalation mentally chant come feel that you are the part of supreme god. Your whole concentration should be on your breath. Your whole concentration should be on your breath. One time only Pray to God. May all become happy. May all become healthy. May we seek what is auspicious. No one suffer in any way. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! [Music] Shant your palms. Put on your shoulders, your whole body. Feel the divine effect of yogic practices. Open your eyes. Thank you everyone. Thank you so much. [Applause] Thank you very much Dr. Sanjek. Thank you very much. Thank you for coming uh today. Uh this concludes our gathering for this evening. Uh once again, thank you for being with us and for your support for promoting yoga in Japan. Uh have a wonderful evening and please join the refreshment at the foyer. Thank you very much for coming today. I must stop.