Today's event marks the 100 days countdown to IDY 2026 and it sets a tone for a nationwide and global celebration of yog in the months ahead till two till till uh June 2000 uh 21st June 2026. The steam gathering that is in front of me, they reflect India's enduring commitment to promoting the timeless wisdom of yog as a pathway to the holistic health and well-being. And as all of us know, yog is perhaps the biggest gift of India to the entire world. Who knows better than all of you that yog is much more than a physical exercise. It is a holistic philosophy that harmonizes body, mind and soul. Rooted in India's uh ancient wisdom, yog has become a global movement embraced by millions as a way of life not only in India abroad as well. So as we begin the 100 day journey leading to IDY 2026, this yog mahus serves as a platform for dialogue, knowledge sharing and collaboration. Today's technical sessions have been very thoughtfully curated to address the emerging dimensions of yog and the applications in contemporary society. The first session focused on yoke for the geriatric population, an area of growing importance in India's aging society as well as the aging population abroad. Role of yog in improving mobility, cognitive function, emotional well-being and overall quality of life among the elderly thereby supporting healthy and dignified aging for all our senior citizens. The second session addressed the business model for Yog entrepreneurship. With a global wellness economy expanding rapidly, Yog presents significant opportunities for livelihood generations as well. So encouraging innovation and sustainable entrepreneurship in the yog sector can empower trained professionals and strengthen the wellness ecosystem and the business modalities. The third session that is planned after this event inaugural session would explore yog and artificial intelligence reflecting the convergence of ancient wisdom with the modern technology to enhance accessibility enhance personalized learning and support research in yog thereby expanding its reach and impact worldwide. I am delighted to inform the house that Ministry of IUS has taken a new initiative Yog 365 campaign to promote Yoke as a yearround national movement for health and well-being. This campaign encourages individuals across all the age groups to make yog integral part of their daily lives not only for a month or a week for an entire year. I'm also pleased to inform you all about the MOU signing initiative between the Muraji Desai National Institute of Yo government of India and HAB build health tech private limited that would be exchanged in this event.