What are you Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. International yoga day simple exercise 13 problem foundation the program conducted by Dr. Mayor on the behalf of international yoga day to create awareness and to promote health and wellbeing on the occasion of international yoga day together can do a wonderful job. So it will benefit lot many people and today's program is excellent, very well organized and it is simple and uh very fragile, flexible and it is helpful for each and everyone including the younger age group to the elder age group. This is very friendly yoga session. Yenry along with Mitra can care both of them working towards raising awareness about health and uh aptly this year's theme for the yoga day one earth one health. So we are all working for the betterment of the community and the society. So definitely yoga will immensely benefit mother earth. In today's program we did collective consciousness meditation. It's for the benefit of everyone. Heartfelt wishes to the Yenry community as well as to Mitra can care. Let all of us continue to be in this journey of yoga to help mother earth heal. So again one earth one health. Thank you. >> Namaste everyone. This is Dr. Mayor Viaku. I am a neurosurgeon as well as a yoga therapist with Amar Bhaskar GI. This journey goes a long back around 5 years back. Uh we take care of cancer patients. I am a neuroonos surgeon and uh with Amar Bhbascar GI we try to help society with respect to prevent cancer and heal the patients in holistic manner. Mitra Canankare is doing a fabulous job in uh helping cancer patients and I am very fortunate to be a part of Mitra Canare yoga for one earth yoga for one health. If our mother earth is unhealthy, obviously the impact is there on our health also. And if mother earth is healthy, then we are also going to be healthy. Please do understand the importance of environmental health. And do join us to heal mother earth as well as heal the human ecosystem as well. Thank you very much. Heat. Heat. You are my head.