themed yoga for one earth, one health. International day of yoga was commemorated as part of personal well-being and global harmony. Quoting India's prime minister on international day of yoga, high commissioner of India to the republic of Trinidad and Tobago. Dr. Praep Singh Rajpur hit a sentiment on what yoga represents. Yoga is for everyone beyond boundaries, beyond backgrounds, beyond age or physical ability. It is a universal gift that unites humanity in health, harmony and consciousness. In today's world is when going through some tension, unrest, instability has been increasing in many parts of the world. In such times, yoga gives us the direction of peace. Dr. Raj Purohit added that yoga offers avenues of living a calm and tension-free life by maintaining wholeness within. Friends, the way to lead a calm, creative and content life is yoga. It can show the way in defeating tensions and anxiety. Practicing yoga has the ability to herald an era of peace, happiness and brotherhood. Yoga helps to maintain balance amidst this in disintegration is does it's it does the job of uniting us. According to the parliamentary secretary in the ministry of foreign and cariccom affairs and in the office of the prime minister Nicholas Morris, the practice of yoga has increased in several parts of the country. He said this showcases the growing interest in holistic practices that promote emotional, physical and psychological well-being. New studios have emerged across the country in north, south, east, and central regions of Trinidad as well as in Tobago, making the practice more accessible to people from all walks of life. Beyond the studio walls, there has also been a noticeable increase in community yoga events from open air sessions in public parks to wellness workshops in schools and community centers. These gatherings not only promote physical health but also foster a sense of connection and shared purpose. Yoga as an ancient practice originating from India is known to strengthen the body, calm the mind and assist in accessing a sense of awareness. Fate Cherat, TTT News.