Yoga is not a practice. Yoga is a way of life. It's a transformative journey of the self through the self and to the self. It's the perfect opportunity. It offers all of us the perfect opportunity to rediscover ourselves. From ancient traditions rooted in the sands of time to today's global stage, yoga has come a long long way. As we celebrate the 11th International Yoga Day, we'll tell you why the practice of yoga is becoming a rich blend of heritage transformation and nowadays even technology. We explore how yoga is helping working professionals battle burnout, easing screen fatigue, and importantly improving the well-being of youth, women, children, and the elderly. With the rise of artificial intelligence and robots, yoga is also becoming more personalized, accessible and engaging. Well, did you know that space agencies like NASA and ISRO now include yoga in astronaut training as well? Yoga is now being performed in zero gravity in space. So who was the first person to do yoga in space and why is yoga becoming an international phenomenon? Now we commemorating the international yoga day. This is our special broadcast. I'm Siha Mortani. [Music] These small small ASA can bring a big difference in your day-to-day life where you feel very sick. And when you have those 15 minutes for yourself and you see the benefit off and on your chair, you will do it over and over again for more time. [Music] [Applause] [Music] Yoga predates recorded history. It was here long before us, before you and me, before our ancestors. In fact, the earliest indications of yoga being practiced is from the Indis Valley civilization. 5,000 years ago. The term yoga appears in the Rigid, the world's oldest known sacred text. As time passed, it evolved into a deeper spiritual and philosophical system shaped by the Upanishads, the Bhagat Gita and the teachings of sage Patanjali who codified yoga into his famous eight limbs. [Music] Yama which is ethics. Nyama discipline. Asa which is posture. Pranayam which is breath. Pratyahhara withdrawal of the senses. Dhanana which is focus. Dana which is meditation and samadhi absorption. Modern yoga pioneers like Swami Viveananda, Shri Orurubindo, T Krishna Machara and BKS Ayangar took yoga to the world emphasizing not just its spiritual core but its power to heal the body and mind. Swami Viveanand once said through practice comes yoga through yoga comes knowledge through knowledge comes love and through love comes bliss. In recent times, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has popularized yoga like never before. In fact, on the insistence of India, the United Nations declared 21st June as International Yoga Day. It's being practiced since the year 2014 for 11 years now, year after year as International Yoga Day. This year we commemorate the 11th International Yoga Day with the theme yoga for one earth, one health. It's a call to unity to unify the body, the mind and the entire planet. Well, earlier I spoke with Bandhana Gupta who's a very well-known yoga instructor, a yoga teacher, yoga guru to give us an idea about how yoga has changed over the last few years or so. Ever since this government popularized the concept of yoga and of course after the United Nations declared the 21st of June as the international yoga day. How does she see this practice? Why is this really becoming universal? And why yoga is for everyone? Listen in to that conversation. [Music] [Music] Vra Gupta thank you so much for your time. Thank you for having me. Namaste. I want to begin by asking you and this is something that we seeing in the recent last few years or so that yoga is being embraced by just so many people people who otherwise wouldn't have done you know anything for themselves visually some exercise but they are now wanting to do breath work meditation is also becoming popular those people who never would do it are doing it and people who wouldn't do yoga or be afraid of it are also doing what they can including senior citizens and children I see right So what's really going on here? You know you have answered in your own question. You have just said that everybody is doing it from age of fiveyear-old kid to a very to an older person who is probably 80 years or 85 years because yoga is easily accessible for everybody at every age. Also in this today's fastpaced life where everything is running we don't have that mind space also to do anything or to perform everything. We just need something which keeps us very calm, gives us that kind of inner peace where we just find our own self. So yoga actually brings that kind of peace to you. Hence everybody wants to opt for it. I am sure that it's not uh people understand it as exercise or asa. It's not just an exercise or asa. You rightly said it's um the people are actually attracted towards meditation nowadays for the same reason for that calm that inner peace also that emotional balance in their life not just physical stuff we are talking about when we talk about yoga yoga is union between who between your own self to your higher self where you find the peace in between with your breath so your body breath and mind this beautiful connection that actually only yoga can gives you believe me you Just try and you will know you know I also want to ask you like a lot of working professionals they say they don't have time. I believe that you can sit on a chair and do yoga and that's also possible. Just tell us how you know you you don't have to like make time for it in a way that you can do many things even without working hard for you know making time for it. You know the most important part that you have to make some small lifestyle changes. um as you said that you have such working hours where you have to sit for really long when you are sitting and in between those breaks you actually take out movements I'm not saying a long not even 15 minutes so if I'm sitting like this if I will just cross my foot over my another knee and just press it I don't even have to keep my stomach 100% empty for doing such as it will actually increase mobility this is called figure four in yogasan this will not just improve your mobility in your hips because while sitting your hips actually gets tight very badly. So the simple assa like this and as I mentioned twisting posture if you will do twisting in this particular asan it will not just actually improve the vertebrae gap which has to be normal in between your vertebrae which actually shorten while sitting for the longer period of time. This will help you with that also. So as I mentioned earlier just before this question that spew simple asan one forward fold one nice twist long deep breaths like big pranayam and if you can just stand for 2 minutes to do two asan perform tarasan and trionas okay so anything which is when we do um a back bend in fact yeah one more asan merger and vital asan catch and cow posture on your chair itself you don't have to go on on your fours just hug yourself while you exhale and just inhale as much as possible. Open your chest. Okay. So, this is the cat pose while you're sitting on a chair. Yes. Cat and cow. While you are sitting on your chair in between any point of time. I'm so doing this. Yeah, please go ahead. I'm telling you. Okay. I didn't know that you can do this while sitting. Yes. And then the fluid in your spinal cord that gets moving. And the moment it gets moving your brain also where if you are getting stuck because of any sort of stress the work is stress the physical body stiffness your mind is also getting stiff. The moment you do cat and cow on your chair itself you just feel the difference. You just try it once. I would want you to try it once. Just hug yourself and make your spine really round. Hug yourself deeper. Tuck your chin in. And as you open your heart just feel that you are opening like a mother to the world. Nice deep inhalation and relax. Just do it couple of times on your chair. A lot of oxygen in your body. It will anyway keep you calm also keep your face growing as it is already. Yeah. You know, okay. I was asking you and you know um this is something that I really uh believe that most of us you know take our eyes for granted. We there's you know usually we don't take care of our eyes or exercise you know our eyes as much as we should. And I think these days it's taking care of your eyes and putting special focus on them is so important because of the uh addiction to these things with gadgets uh digital gadgets and including kids are doing it. So just tell us some eye exercises how they help us essentially and why everybody should be doing them. Yes, this is actually a very essential question to ask. Eye muscles are actually the most abused muscles in our body and in today's time when everything is technical or digital. So this that induced stress especially to our eyes brings a lot of stress to our eyes which actually goes to our body eventually. Simple thing first of all take some thla maybe a teaspoon of thrift fla soak it overnight. When you get up in the morning strain it and wash your eyes with it probably you can cool it. It will actually give you a lot of coolness in your eyes. Wash your eyes and perform simple eye exercises like looking in between your eyebrows, the third eye chakra and then your nasal tip. Do it for 10 10 times. Come in between then close your eyes for probably 30 seconds open. Look side to side extreme side. If you want to use a pan or probably your thumb, just keep on looking at your thumb. Do without uh turning your head anywhere. Both the side then come to the center. Close your eyes. Open your eyes. Go. Right eye corner up. Left corner down. Exactly same thing on the opposite side. Left up, right down. Close your eyes. Open. If you can do 360° circle with your eyeballs like this, close uh clockwise and anticlockwise. It's fine. If you can't, just keep your eyes closed and flicker them off screen. Not in front of the screen. Off the screen. Cup them like this. Cupping is very important also with your palms especially your fingers just close your eyes and give them warm after doing so many exercise for the eyes you will feel a little strain because we are not used to of the doing these kind of particular exercises for our eyes when we lift dumbbell in the gym or do some sort of asa we feel that kind of fatigue exactly same thing happens to our eyes also so at the last just cupping like this. Open cup. Open cup. Two three times. Again with the fingers. Warm them. Close your eyes. Give some warmth. And very gently by looking at the floor first and then open the eyes in front. So try doing these kind of exercises. It will actually help you immensely with everything you do in life. We are looking at everything throughout the day till the time we are not passing out on the bed. So uh you know I want to ask you about women as well. Lots of problems, reproductive problems also PCOS, endometriosis, all of this is actually very common nowadays. How does yoga have? See as I mentioned that yoga actually helps calms down everything and it actually when you are calm your hormonal imbalance also comes in places. So yoga helps to balance the hormone the whole actual hormonal system whole calms your nervous system down. So the that connection which your peripheral nervous system sends to your CNS your other I will talk in very simple language your nervous system overall. So when it everything is calm it actually helps in your hormonal balance. And when you are particularly following some asa like um malasana like dyasana pachimotanasan m ardasendrasan these kind of asa actually helps to keep the hormonal imbalance in check and keeps them balanced. So actually every women from a very early age even a small girl from the age of eight should start practicing some form of yoga asa here I'm talking about majorly of yoga asana then of course they can slowly practice raaya and meditation later it will immensely help them to keeping their whole health in check. Even the pregnant women even during the menopause when we have a lot of hot flushes and we have a lot of mood swings you actually helped in that also all those forward bands and heart opening wherever we feel connected with our own self in these asa it actually balance everything inside out for children you mentioned briefly the young girls should start but what about the other kids as well what what should they really start with and how would it benefit kids and kids nowadays especially I also have a four-year-old I must tell you about her. So if you are having a youngest kid who is not able to uh follow the instructions properly, you must have something fun was for them. So some story based line where you are just telling them if they you want them to do talas and just tell them um plug the mangoes or whatever or just touch the star in the sky something like that. When you have the stars in your hand put it down then they will perform the pashimotanas. So some story line deep for the younger kids. uh women not just the girls even the boys in the younger age before puberty must practice sura namaskkar you know like most of us know that after puberty the brain growth happens very less before puberty it's immense happening there's so much happening in our body uh at the same time it's a lot happening with the brain also and if you're performing surya namashkar before puberty it helps in brain growth immensely. So must perform sura namashkar before puberty after puberty as well like lifelong but before puberty. If you have young kids at home must teach them how to practice surya namashkar. If kids can't follow the instruction make a story line just anything which can resonate with their assa and don't worry that they are not doing it perfectly. Don't worry about it. It's fine. They are kids. They're still learning. They're at least doing something. Just take care they are not getting injured. This is it. If they are doing something a little wrong or probably their hand is not hands are not in place or probably legs are not right, it's fine. Just let them start from somewhere. Eventually after one or two years, you will see there's immense changes in them and they are able to follow the instructions properly too. So just start them early. My last question kids uh of course should start early is what you're saying but you know senior citizens many of them obviously suffer from joint pain and all of that there's muscle losses psychopenmia and things like that. So how should they go about you know doing yoga what would be your advice to them? So first thing start with very gentle postures very gentle as you know hence we everybody wants to opt for yoga because yoga have a wide range of asa from a very beginner friendly to a very advanced level. So all the elderly people this is my small advice while looking at others probably of uh the same age person who's been practicing yoga for a very long time can practice headstand now also but if you are stand starting at the age of 60 go very gentle with you don't push beyond your limits push your limits but not beyond your limits and when you start doing start probably with pranayama I would say rather just jumping on the asan asan like balasan anand balasan and sura namashkar modified if you want to do sura mashkar if you don't want to do sura namashkar practice anything I will just give you a small lineup for everybody in fact choose according to your limits that what you need to perform anything which is like linear practice where you go down and backward and straight up those twisting posture and sideways bending so sura namaskar is wonderful for the linear practice then practice the Pune asan or ard katichakarasan ard the masendrasan basish asan and followed by some supine posture at on the floor prone and supine both maybe two two and you are through just practice two pranayam I'm not even saying that follow all the pranayams available basically yeah and then eventually gradually maybe one asan at a time just add one in your daily practice and then another and same goes with the prime or probably change the multiple yogasan. You can't practice every yogasan in one practice. So probably you want to do vistasan one day someday you want to do some other asan for the same body posture. Someday you want to do nari shodnam. Someday you just want to do dup pranayam. There are days when you want to do kapalabhhati. There are days when you just want to do bastria. It's fine. And someday you want to do it all. Just go out do it all. Thank you so much. Thank you for your insights. Thanks a lot. Thank you so much. Technology has changed and touched and transformed all aspects of our life. Be it governance, healthcare, education, sports, the list really is endless. So how can yoga something that has become so integral to our lives be untouched? Now with the advent of technology and especially with artificial intelligence there are many things that have changed in the practice of yoga. It's a good time to bring in India today's tech expert Cyrus John on how he sees this this transformative landscape really of artificial intelligence and technology changing yoga. Cyrus that's right Sneha yoga is indeed India's gift to the world and even today a lot of people look at yoga as being instrumental to leading a life of health and well-being but the question is a lot of people are running around these days everybody's living that jet life so finding the instructor the yoga instructor is it really that difficult because remember technology is getting embedded into everything and even yoga so as yoga is evolving so is the tech around it and let me show you how. [Music] All right. So, first tech that we will talk about is yoga mats and how they have improved the overall exercise. And remember, yoga mats what they have in the market right now are pretty common. But however, there are specific tech enabled yoga mats that can tell you the kind of pressure points that you have when you are positioning yourself on the mat. Now for example if you have a yoga mat in front of you and you are on it the way you are planting your feet the way you are positioning your body everything matters and that is being tracked by the sensors within the mat. Now a lot of companies are innovating in this sector and I feel the more and more people get exposed to this kind of technology the more they will learn. Now remember these mats also come with Bluetooth connectivity. So if you want to connect a device, maybe you have an iPad which you have in front of you, someone is instructing you and the way that you should be positioned. I think that is innovation that people should be open to. And these sensors that they have in the mats are very accurate. They tell what kind of pressure that you're putting on your feet or maybe your hands, even your body. So as the tech evolves, this will also get better and people will have a better understanding of how they should position themselves on the mat. So this is one innovation that is really really picking up in the tech world. The next I want to talk about is the tech in yoga pants. Yes, sounds a bit difficult to believe but that is actually happening in today's world where sensors are being very smartly woven into yoga pants to give you feedback of how your movement is on the mat. So for example, if a yoga pant, a basic yoga pant is being smartly woven with sensors. The way you position yourself on the mat is squint essential. And these sensors give you feedback of what your position is like on the mat. And by the way, these sensors that are on the yoga pants are synced very smartly to an application. So they track how you are performing, if you are making any errors in terms of body movements. And I think this is a smart way to enhance the overall experience. And it's just not yoga pants. Sensors like these are being added to other apparel and also improving the overall athletic optimization and performance of people. So I think this is great in terms of technology and especially yoga. And last but not the least are the free websites and applications which you get that offer you yoga instructions and the way that you should be moving. Remember a lot of these applications are available for iOS and Android users. You can go and access all of the information for free and also there are websites you can go to and even YouTube tutorials that give you step-by-step instructions of how you can start your yoga journey. And if you're an intermediate user, you can also have a look at some of these tools and enhance your overall experience. And I think this sort of a tool is great for people who are just starting off in their yoga journey and just helps you understand this art better. Now remember all of the options that I gave you on this list, most of them are very difficult to attain especially VR glasses, yoga pants and yoga mats are available in India but they are expensive and you know steep in terms of accessibility. So consider your options, weigh them in and try to find the best option for you. But remember websites and platforms are also available. So if you do not have a lot to spend, you can go to these applications and website and maybe start off your journey. If you feel that you want to enhance and maybe you know go to the next level when you talk about your yoga journey, then maybe invest in better technology. But right now I feel if you want to just start off try the websites and applications they will really help you out. Yoga is actually now being practiced in space as well. How's that possible even in zero gravity? Our report tells you more. [Music] Have you ever imagined performing yoga in zero gravity? Doing asas without a surface and practicing breathing exercises in a vacuum. Sounds surreal, right? But it is real. NASA and other space agencies now integrate yoga into astronaut training, helping counteract muscle loss, bonrophy, and mental stress caused by microgravity. Breathing exercises help maintain a healthy cardiovascular system and yoga's focus and balance and flexibility supports astronauts in adapting to the weightless environment. While traditional yoga poses like the downward dog rely on gravity, astronauts perform adapted versions often using smart yoga suits designed for space conditions. Take Samantha Christopheri, astronaut from expedition 67. She posted a picture from the Japanese keyhap striking the triangle pose. And there's something closer home. Wing commander Rakkesh Sharma, India's first astronaut and a national hero was also the first person in the world to perform yoga in space. He's fondly known as Antriugi. Captain Shukla, are you ready for the ride? Will you do some yoga in space like your idol Rakkesh Sharma did in 1984? Shubhanchu Shukla an Indian astronaut is also planning to practice yoga in space during the Axia mission 4 to the international space station. All right, let's get you up to speed with some interesting and unknown facts about the practice of yoga. Take a look. Meet Yash Moradya, Dwey based yoga instructor and a ninetime Guinness World Record holder known for mastering some of the most difficult yoga poses. In 2022 at just 22 years old, he set a world record by holding the incredibly challenging Vish Chikasna. The scorpion pose for a jawdropping 29 minutes and 4 seconds. [Music] In this inverted pose, the practitioner balances on their hands while bending backward to touch their head with their toes. To achieve this feat, Yash trained rigorously 3 hours a day for 5 years. [Music] Did you know yoga isn't just for humans? There's a practice called dog, which is yoga with dogs. Tarted by Suji Tatleman in New York in 2002. Dogga involves pet owners performing yoga poses with their dogs, often using their pets as props. Well, the aim to strengthen the bond between humans and their canine companions through shared mindfulness and movement. [Music] According to the Guinness World Records, the title of the world's oldest yoga teacher currently belongs to Vete Calman, who held the record at 85 years of age. Before her, the record was with the legendary Tao Porchan Lynch, who was recognized at the age of 93. Meanwhile, a 90-year-old yoga teacher named Gladis Morris is now petitioning Guinness to claim the title, making the race for the oldest yogi status all the more spirited. [Music] Prahalad Jani, a reclusive Indian yogi, stunned the world by claiming to have survived without food or water for over 70 years. His claims caught the attention of the medical community. Between 2003 and 2010, neurologist Dr. Sudhish Sha and other researchers conducted several observational studies on him. He reported no visible signs of physical distress. The claim remains highly controversial, dividing the scientific opinion even today. Some yogis have demonstrated remarkable control over their bodily functions. One such example is Yogi Ramaya who in the 1960s reportedly slowed down his heartbeat under clinical observation both in India and the United States. Studies have documented yogis reducing their heart rate from 88 to 32 beats per minute in just a few minutes. This phenomenon is often attributed to practices like pranayam and deep meditation which help master the autonomic nervous system through breath and awareness. [Music]