Yoga for one earth, one health. We all remember the beautiful message of Indian culture, Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, the whole world, the whole earth is one. It is not just one. All that is visible as variations, all that is visible as diversities is only an apparent, but actually they are all interrelated, interdependent and interconnected. We should remember maintaining health of our body, maintaining health of our mind is not just dependent on ourself. In Bhagavad Gita we have beautiful shlokas. It says that samatvam yoga uchyate, samatvam is not just equanimity, it is balance. So all the actions of thought, all the actions of emotions, all the actions of behaviour and all the actions of physical, of all the living creatures, how beautiful it is, it is interconnected. Let us practise yoga, not just physical asanas, not just breathing exercises, not just emotional exercises. Yoga is not just that. Yoga is transforming our life, transforming our behaviour. June 21, 2025 is approaching. We are all aware 21st of June is the international day of yoga. This year the theme is aptly designed, named and fixed beautifully as the yoga for one earth, one health. We all remember the beautiful message of Indian culture, Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, that the whole world, the whole earth is one. It is not just one, it is a single unit. This oneness, single unit means all that is visible as variations, all that is visible as diversities is only an apparent, but actually they are all interrelated, interdependent and interconnected. This interconnected, interdependent and interrelated unity of entire life on this globe, on this earth is what is an important dimension. Recognising ourself as part of the entire creation in the globe is an important dimension of yoga that we are not separate, we are connected. We are connected means we are connected to everything. We are connected to the animals, whether they are wild or domestic. We are also connected to all the plants in our own home, surrounding us or even in the forests. We are connected to the entire pancha bhutas, the water, the air, the earth, the fire, the light, the sky. This oneness is a message of yoga and one earth, one health means maintaining the health of all these things. A healthy environment, a healthy planet, a healthy society, a healthy family, a healthy surroundings, the hygiene surrounding us, the hygiene surrounding our home, within the house, surrounding the home, in the streets, in the town, in the village and similarly maintaining, supporting the environment, taking care of the plants, the trees, the leaves, the flowers, the fruits and at the same time supporting the life of the birds, the animals, avoiding violence towards the nature, avoiding violence towards all the living beings. Even our behaviour towards non-living beings, how do we handle, how do we treat the material world, the materials, all this forms part of the health because every behaviour, every action, every thought of ourself not only brings a change in our health, not only brings and affects our health but also brings a change in everything because it is interconnected. This transformative approach, transformative health, transformative affect is an important dimension, we have to recognise that and this recognition makes us to monitor, to alter, to transform, to change our behaviour, our approach, our way of life in the entire world. And this is an important dimension of one earth and one health. We should remember maintaining health of our body, maintaining health of our mind is not just dependent on ourself because it is connected to the entire environment, it is connected to the entire living beings in the world. So if our health or my health is to be maintained means it is dependent on the water I consume, it is dependent on the liquids I consume, it is dependent on the thoughts which enter into me, it is dependent on the emotions which I transact and come to me, it is dependent on the entire environmental safety, it is dependent on the food I eat, that's why healthy food, food safety, healthy environment. I should be part of maintaining and take the responsibility in maintaining the health of my surroundings. So world responds as I respond to it. This inter-responsiveness is an important factor in the yoga dimension. Yoga recognises it. In Bhagavad Gita we have beautiful shlokas. It says that samatvam yoga uchyate. Samatvam is not just equanimity, it is balance. A balanced and harmonious approach and a balanced and harmonious environment, a balanced and harmonious interactions, a balanced and harmonious thought flow, a balanced and harmonious emotions, important dimension. My emotions are affected, my emotions are changed. When my pet dog comes to me, when a pet animal comes to me, how do I handle the animals surrounding me? A cow in my goshala, a dog in our house, a cat in our house, the various insects, the birds. Yogic life recognises and makes a person responsible for that approach. This is an important dimension. Samatvam yoga uchyate means that. And there is another beautiful shloka in Bhagavad Gita, the third chapter, fourteenth shloka in the Karma Yoga. annad bhavanti bhutani parjanyad annasambhavaha yajnyad bhavati parjanyo yajnyakarma samuddhavaha it is said. Entire philosophy of yoga is stitched limit. This is the core of philosophy of yoga. annad bhavanti bhutani. All of us and all the bhutas, entire life is born out of anna. Anna is not just food we eat. Anna is the material in entire world, the cause of our birth. The material from which we are born, the conglomeration and the core and the contents of the material from which we are born, that is anna. annad bhavanti bhutani. So these materials responsible for us, we are born of these materials. Simply we can refer as the food. parjanyad annasambhavaha. The food and these materials are born out of, made out of, prepared out of, generated out of, born out of, manifested out of, parjanyaha, out of rain. See how our life is connected to the food and the food is connected to the rain. parjanyad annasambhavaha and yajnyad bhavanti parjanyaha. And the rains are born or rains are generated out of yajnyaha. Yajnya is result of our actions. Yajnya is a socially responsible action. All our socially responsible behaviour. Yajnya is not just havan. Yajnya is not just homam. Yajnya is a socially responsible and socially productive action of mind. A socially responsible, socially productive thought of mind. A socially responsible, socially productive emotions of mind, thought of mind, actions of mind. Everything which is socially responsible, environmentally responsible, environmentally non-destructive action, environment friendly action, environment friendly thought, that is all called as yajnyaha. And out of this action, out of this thought, rains are generated. Rains are not generated just from the clouds. Rains are generated. It's a cycle of rains. And this cycle of rain has an impact. It has an effect. It has a resultant of my behaviour. parjanyad annasambhavaha and yajnyad is connected with the parjanya. And yajnyad bhavati karmaha it is called. Every action of mind, of all human beings, of all living creatures, all the actions of all the living creatures, and actions are not physical. Actions are emotional. Actions are thought. So all the actions of thought, all the actions of emotions, all the actions of behaviour, and all the actions of physical, of all the living creatures, how beautiful it is. It is interconnected. It is interdependent. And it is interrelated, interdependent, and interconnected it is. So every action of the cow, every action of a small insect, every action of the bird which is flying, is also connected to me, to my thought, to my actions. How wonderful it is. This is the global view, or the global view of yoga, or yogic view of global health. This is the theme of this year's 2025, June 21st, One Earth, One Health. And we should remember beautifully the wonderful yoga protocol which is made, a common yoga protocol. So all the actions we do in the form of yogasanas, all the actions which we perform in the form of pranayama, all the actions which we perform in the name of dhyana, meditation, they all have a global implications. They have global transformations. We should not just say, when I breathe in, and when I breathe out. This action of breathing in and breathe out has a global ramifications. And that is what the beautiful shloka, the third chapters, 14th shloka referred it. So let us not disconnect ourselves from anything or everything from the world and in fact recognise the connectiveness with everything. And this recognition is the first step in maintaining the, not only our health, but the global health. A small insect, a small worm, a small bird, a small snake in the amazon forest will have its thought process connected to my thought sitting somewhere in a small corner of India or somewhere in the world. They are not disconnected, they are interconnectedness. This is called as Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. That's why the entire world celebrates this year's One Earth and One Health. Let us practise yoga, not just physical asanas, not just breathing exercises, not just emotional exercises. Yoga is not just that. Yoga is transforming our life, transforming our behaviour and bringing a transformation in the world. So my transformation brings a transformation in the world. This essential interconnectedness, interdependence and interrelatedness is the theme of this year's yoga day, International Day of Yoga. And let us practise intensely, spread this message. Let thousands and millions practise yoga and let us be true seekers of yoga, true practitioners of yoga, true messengers of yoga, spreading harmony, peace in this global health scenario. And let us be true yogis and spreading this message of eternal Indian message of science of yoga. And let us be proud to be the forerunners and torchbearers of our ancient message of Bharatiya Sanatana Dharma Samskriti, the Vaidika Upanishad Parampara, which India has presented to the world as a global peace scenarios message. Namaste and thank you one and all.