Good morning to all and everyone. Wow, what a beautiful morning. What a big day for all of us. As you all are aware that this day that means 21st of June all around the world we celebrate as the international day of yoga. In the year 2014, our honorable prime minister took this initiative and proposed to celebrate to dedicate this day as a yoga day in the United Nations General Council and it is a matter of proud that United Nations all the countries 177 countries voted in favor of international day of yoga. Since then we celebrate this on 21st of June and this year also we are celebrating under the guidance of our principal ma'am. I am very much happy to present today's program. We will as ministry of Aayush government of India prescribed we will start our day with prayer then shuksham bam then yoga shanas the protocol ashas as selected by the ministry and the end will be with prana. This year the theme of yoga day is yoga for one earth one health. So we should try to follow this and incalculate the habit to do in our day-to-day life regularly. So let's start today's program with prayer. Join your hands. Close your eyes. Let's start. [Music] Oh, [Music] [Applause] [Music] wow. [Music] The child. [Music] [Music] [Music] San Sana. [Music] [Music] After finishing the prayer song, now we will start exercising. First is neck rotation, neck exercises which will make our neck muscles strong forward and backwards. Neck bending backward and downward. We now next is sideways neck exercise. Left, right. We should do it properly. Our body should be straight. Hands on your arms. [Music] Now twisting, neck twisting. Keep your body straight. Twist your neck. The chin should be parallel to your shoulder. Now neck rotation. [Music] Those who have spondilitis and neck problem they should do it carefully. Rotate your neck smoothly as shown in the video. After neck rotation, we will do arms exercise. Stand straight sideways. Raise your arms. Up. Up. The arms should be straight. Touch your ears and then down. When our arms are upwards, inhale. Exhale. Now shoulder exercise. The exercise for making our shoulder flexible and strong. Shoulder rotation. Shoulder rotation. Do as the girl is doing in the video. Forwards and backwards. Now trunk twisting. Open your legs little more than your the length of your shoulder. The distance of your shoulder. Both arms straight. your waist from your waist to head the body should rotate. See from the side wise [Music] arms should be parallel to the ground at shoulder level. We call this trunk twisting. It twist our spinal cord, our trunk. [Music] Now the exercise for making our thighs and knees strong. Stand straight. arms. Raise your arms forward at shoulder level and then bend your knees down and up. Down and up. Those who have arthritis problem, they should be careful while doing this exercise. [Music] Now we are coming for the ashana's part. First aan is tar ashan. Tar means palm. Palm tree. The posture of the body should be like a palm tree straight. Raise your heel. You should be on your toes. Both arms should be straight touching your ears from toes to arms fingers it should be of one line. Now vshasan brick means tree tree pose. Fold your one leg as shown in the video. Then raise your hands. The body posture should be like a tree. It makes our legs muscles strong and improves our balance. You should practice from both leg. Once right and once left [Music] this is brick shashan. Huh? After briashan pad hustashan, pada means leg and hust means hands. We will touch our legs with hands. See in the video as much as you can bend bend it. Please remember the legs should be straight. There should be no bending of your knees. After padasan archandrashan archandrashan hands on your waist bend your upper part backwards like a half moon earth chandrasan now is trion triangle pose. Open your legs according to your height. Then bend right side. Arm should be straight like a single line. You can see in the video. Look upwards. Do it from both side. Your eyes should be upwards. See the straight line of her hands. There should be no bending of knees. Knees should be straight. Arms should be straight. It was trion. Now badashan. For badashan pass it down. Now fold your both legs close as shown in the video. Back should be straight and the thigh should be attached to ground as much as can. [Music] Now it is ardu chandra sorryan. [Music] First sit in bhujang. Yeah bajarashan position then bend backwards. Ustrasha camel pose. Camel pose rashan. Earlier pose was for the elderly people or those who have less flex flexibility. Here our body posture becomes like a camel. Now is Shashan Kashan. Those who have complication in waste and legs, they should not do this. They should be careful. They should try at their own level which is comfortable for them. Now is utan mandukashan. The knees should be apart. [Music] Now vakrashan this is also very much helpful for making our trunk flexible. It twist our trunk. There are very few exercise and astronas where our trunk can get twisted. We do exercise for all parts of the body but there is very less exercise where our trunk get twisted and it is very necessary for the proper blood circulation. [Music] [Music] The ministry has designed the asshas for all age group. You can see the level of difficulty is very less. These are some asas which everyone can do. Now is bhujang ashan. Bujang means snake. Here our body makes a posture like a snake. It is very much helpful for the neck problems, bondilitis [Music] and also it improves our breathing capacity. Now shalab ashan shalav ashan shalav means grass of earth. You can see it. This satan helps for back pain but one should consult a expert or doctor before doing this. Now is setu bandhan. Setu banhan means setu means bridge. Bridge. You can see this is half part of the bridge. This is also very much helpful for back pain, back problem. This is called setu banhan. Now is uttan padashan where we will lift our legs in 45°. Back should be attached with the ground. Neck straight. Both hands should be sideways. Hold for 10 to 15 seconds. Practice it two to three times. Every asshas practice three times. Now is the halashan. Hal means plow. This is half plow pose. [Music] Now is paw mktashan pav. This helps to clear gas from our body. Everybody should practice it in the morning. [Music]