[Music] When is International Yoga Day celebrated every year? June 21. In which year was the first International Yoga Day celebrated? 2015 [Music] who proposed the idea of international yoga day to the United Nations. PM Sri Narendra Modi [Music] who declared 21st June as the International Yoga Day. The United Nations General Assembly. When did the UN General Assembly announce June 21 as the International Yoga Day? December 10, 2014. In which section of the UN General Assembly was International Yoga Day established? 69th section. [Music] Which ministry does celebration of international yoga day in India? The ministry of Aayush. What does Aayush stand for? Ayurveda, yoga, naturopathy, Yunani, Siddha and homeopathy. The term yoga is derived from which Sanskrit word huge. What is the meaning of the word yoga in Sanskrit? Union. What language are yoga symbolize? Sanskrit. Who had introduced yoga first time to the western world in a religion conference Chago USA? [Music] Swami Viveananda which Indian ambassador to the UN introduced the draft resolution on international day of yoga? Ashokuma Mugar Gi [Music] How many nations dignitaries participated in the first international day of yoga event in New Delhi? [Music] 84. Which advertising company created the logo of International Yoga Day? Punjatwa advertising which yoga app has been launched by Ministry of Aush for working professionals? Why break app? Where was the first international yoga day celebrated? New Delhi, India. What was the first theme of International Yoga Day? Yoga for harmony and peace. What was the theme for International Day of Yoga 2024? Yoga for self and society. What is the theme of International Yoga Day 2025? Yoga for one earth, one health. Which city will host International Yoga Day 2025? Vishyaga Patnam, Andhra Pradesh. [Music] What was the theme of International Yoga Day 2023? Yoga for Bazua Gurbakam. An event to commemorate 100 days countdown to international day of yoga. Yoga mahulsa. Who is organizing the yoga mahorsa in India under the ministry of Aayush? MD NI full form of MDN IY Murji Desai National Institute of Yoga. Who is the current minister of Aayush Ministry? Three, Jada, Praaparo, Gpatra. Which city hosted the yoga mahals of 2025 on 2nd May to mark the 50-day countdown to the 11th International Yoga Day? City of Najik. Which Indian city is known as yoga capital of the world? Rishies who is known as the father of modern yoga Krishna Machara which Indian city made new Guinness world record for largest gathering of people for yoga section in one place in 2023. Three. Surat which is the oldest yoga institute in the world. The yoga institute Mumbai. The yoga express train operates between which two cities? Ahmedabad and Rishiesh. What is the name of the video blogging contest associated with International Yoga Day? My life, my yoga. [Music] Who wrote the book Light on Yoga? BKS ayangar What are the five elements in yoga? Earth, water, air, sky, fire. Which Veda mentions the element of yoga? Rica, [Music] what is the most popular type of yoga? Hata yoga. What is the meaning of the word hata? Ha means sun. Ta means moon. [Music] Who was the founder of hata yoga? Goraknad. How many chakras in human body? Seven. [Music] What is the name of chakra located near the heart? The heart chakra or anhata. Which chakra is the earth element? [Music] The root chakra. Which chakra is red in color? the root chakra. What is the total number of asas? 84. How many steps are there in one sura namaskar round? 12. [Music]