All [Music] right. So today of course is the 21st of June. Every year on this day the world of course comes together to celebrate International Day of Yoga. Originating from ancient Indian traditions, yoga happens to be one of India's gifts to the world. And this year's theme is yoga for one earth and one health. We take a look at why yoga matters and how it inspires millions of people around the globe to stay healthy. [Music] It's a day when the world rolls out its yoga mats in unison. June 21st marks International Yoga Day, a celebration of health, harmony, and heritage. It is 11 years since yoga officially went global, becoming a movement that unites minds and bodies across borders. Born from the ancient traditions of India, yoga is more than just physical exercise. It's a lifestyle of balance, breathing and mindfulness. Yoga becames a new medicine to the world. To me, yoga and meditation is the way. Meditation is the best medication for all agitations. It was in December 2014 that the United Nations General Assembly acting on a proposal by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared June 21st as International Yoga Day. This year's theme for the International Day of Yoga is yoga for one earth, one health. It is a reminder that our well-being is deeply intertwined with the health of our planet. This year the theme itself is very unique. It's yoga for one earth, one health which is all inclusive. So the idea of the prime minister is that it's a unified world and yoke stands for union. So it cuts across the nationalities, it cuts across genders, it cuts across to get everyone together. So uniqueness is that we are looking at numerous and millions of people practicing yoga uh for a unified approach to get everyone together. This year PM Modi highlights that the theme reflects India's mission for global wellness using yoga to create a healthier more united world. From Vishaka Patnham's coastline to the world stage this year celebrations are nothing short of historic. When you see the common yoga protocol it is made in a very systematic way. Standing sitting prone supine then relaxing shavasana then coming to the pranayyama pranayyama then relaxing pranayama then last dhana what we call meditation. [Music] We're reminded of something powerful on this International Day of Yoga. When we stretch beyond our limits, we don't just grow stronger, we grow together. Because when there is one health and one earth, there is one humanity. [Music] Hey. Hey. Hey. [Music]