Namaste. On the remarkable occasion of 11th International Yoga Day, I extend my heartfelt greetings to each and every one of you present here today. I congratulate the officials and staff of the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Airport Sorority of India for organizing today's yoga camp with such great enthusiasm. I have always encouraged people to embrace the ancient wisdom of yoga which I believe holds the answers to many modern-day problems. Yoga is the perfect solution to achieving harmony between the mind, body and soul. We all should be grateful to our ancestors who preserved this invaluable tradition originating from the ancient texts of the Vedas and the oponyishads. And I extend my sincere gratitude to honorable prime minister Shri Narendra Modi GI whose encouragement has made yoga an essential part of our daily lives. Once again also because of his efforts today 192 countries are celebrating the essence of yoga be it the fit India moment anti-obesity campaign or the celebration of yoga day. Narendra Modi G has spearheaded numerous initiatives for inspiring us to be physically active. We have been celebrating yoga day every year with great enthusiasm and this year's theme yoga for one earth one health beautifully connects yoga with sustainability and global well-being. I would say this is India's beautiful message to the world for harmony and wellness. Today under the guidance of our honorable prime minister this grand yoga sum is organized at over one lakh locations across the country. The active participation of the Ministry of Civil Aviation reflects our collective commitment to personal, environmental and global well-being. Even our airports today convey the value and importance of a healthy lifestyle as seen in the beautiful artworks at Delhi airport, the Surya Namaskar sculpture and the intricately crafted hand mudras. I'm proud that we are together building a healthy and positive workplace by embracing wellness. Let us pledge to encourage our colleagues, friends, family to adopt yoga for their well-being as well. We are truly blessed to have the transformative practice of yoga. Let us spread awareness so that as many people as possible can benefit from it. I once again congratulate all of you for enthusiastically celebrating the day and making the program a grand success. Thank you. Jin.