Why Yoga should be practised? To understand 
this we have to understand what is life. For   a few moments just stop, and look at the life, 
the life as an individual; we are all living on   this planet. And the life as a society; what 
is happening? Even though we may be living in   different corners of the world doing our own 
things. In the end, since we are all living   on this planet, we are collectively contributing 
for the happening of the life as a human society.   From this broader view, when we look at the 
life as collective humans: why we are like   this? Like this means: even though being called as 
humans, even though we all have love, affection,   compassion...all these beautiful things in 
all of us. Each and every one of us has this   beauty within us. But at the same time having this 
within and what is outside created as a combined   consciousness, as a combined expression of human 
society, what we are creating as a world, when   we look at this it is quite contradictory. When we 
look at this outside world: we fought World War I,   World War II. Before that even on this fingers 
uncountable wars in the name of religion. In the   name of conquering the country, in the wish of 
ruling others. We did a lot of stupid things as   humans. I doubt to call as humans. Maybe in the 
evolutionary process till not yet reached the   point to call us as humans, still in the process 
of transition from animals to humans, that may be   the most efficient way to express our state. Why 
it is happening? Mainly because in the name of   development we are all taking into consideration 
only the outer world. We are failing to consider   the contribution of the inner world towards the 
outer world. This outer world what it is coming   out in the name of capitalistic approach, in the 
name of competition, in the name of education...   Everything, like a factory model, there is no 
space for the expression of the Self. There is no   space to bring out the love, affection, compassion 
what all we have inside of us. We are not finding   that space to express. The space is totality 
filled with all this outer mess. Through Yoga,   by finding that Self, by expressing that real 
Self of love and affection we can really create a   better world. How this better world can be created 
through Yoga and why it could not be created till   now, the model what we have as development, why it 
is not possible? Because till now the whole world,   the model what we kept was the model of the mind. 
How the mind is formed? Through sense perception.   How sense perceives? Through the differences what 
it experiences in the outside world. In the end,   the mind is formed through differences. That 
means it is natural to express the life from   the angle of ego. When life is expressed from 
the angle of ego it results in what we are as   collectively humans. This expression as humans 
has to be changed from the ground of mind,   from the ground of difference, towards the ground 
of oneness towards the ground of love. It is   possible when the shift happens from the ground 
of mind to the ground of wisdom. From the ground   of ego to the ground of love. For this Yoga has 
to be practised. Because Yoga touches your real   Self. It tries to bring the reality what we all 
have inside of us. It brings the wisdom which   is covered by mind. Let us all together build 
a better world and a better Self through Yoga.