Good evening one and all. Good evening Anand. We welcome you all to the international web series and presenters who are willing to make their presentations are requested to share your details in the chat box. And all the participants and presenters are requested to register through the registration form which is shared in the form of polls that will be only available in the zoom platform. At the end of the session there will be also a feedback form shared in the form of polls. So you need to submit both the forms to mark your attendance. Those who are watching on YouTube, if Zoom meeting is full or if you are attending at any other time other than while Zoom meeting is happening, we request you to subscribe to YouTube channel so that we get intimated that you have subscribed. It means we can identify the user and you can watch the session completely after watching. You can leave comment in the chat box in the YouTube name and the place from where you are joining so that we can identify that is you because most of the times the username might be different. So there might be difficult in mapping your attendance. Only after watching completely you have to fill the feedback form. First you need to subscribe and because subscribe is a one time feature. So once you subscribe it remains. So we have four sessions. So once you subscribe you will get a notification that so and so user has subscribed. And then for each session to identify you you need to like the video. After watching the video you need to click on the like button so that we also get notified that this user has you know liked after watching so that we'll also know that you have watched the session and then after that you comment the chat box. So these three things are necessary so that to identify whether you have watched because we can see how many watch hours are there. Generally each video or each session is of 1 to 2 hours. So we can see the total number of hours watched and the total number of feedback we are receiving. So we will verify the attendance then only we will be issuing a certificate. So we are giving ample of time at your convenience. You can watch while traveling or at office or whenever you are free. Don't be in a hurry to fill the feedback form without attending without participating. You take your own time only after watching the full session. You follow the instructions. We have sent an email to all those who have attended. the three sessions. Yesterday, two sessions and also one or more sessions. It's not mandatory to attend four sessions. Whichever session you are attending, for each session, there is a separate certificate. So, whichever session you are attending, you can fill the feedback form. So four sessions if you are attending you have to fill four times because you'll be able to provide feedback only for one session at a time because not everyone would be attending. So whichever session if you are attending four sessions you can fill the feedback for four sessions without watching without participating do not fill the feedback form. If you have mistakenly done that, you watch it completely before we verify and you comment and follow the instructions and share. We are observing that without watching and without even completing the instructions, some are just taking the screenshot and sending it. But we can see in our uh analytics all the details will be visible. So don't do that. We need to trust each other and this is for our wellbeing. No this yoga is for everyone for our wellbeing. So let's be genuine. We have four sessions organized that's fine at your convenience and those who are not able to attend live we have given opportunity to record your common yoga protocol which is also available on the website and also by watching our session video also you can do it you can record it and send it and you can get your certificate. So we have lot of flexibility. Our main purpose is to engage you, introduce you to yoga and appreciate for your efforts on these two days and also motivate you to continue this. So let's take it in a positive way and participate. Don't be in a hurry. Kindly follow the instructions. So today also after this session, whoever is uh you know submitting your registration forms, feedback forms in zoom platform, we'll be sending an email again tomorrow to all the participants. So fill the details correctly. We observe that participants are not filling up the details properly. Sometimes they are not giving phone numbers correctly or email address correctly. So what happens when we want to reach out also it's not possible. So that's why fill the form properly we are giving ample time till the feedback form is shared. The registration form will be open. So no need to hurry. And once feedback form is shared, we will give you 10 to 15 minutes time. That form doesn't require that much time. You can fill it in 3 to 5 minutes. But we'll give you ample time. Don't be in a hurry. But ensure that you are filling all the details and ensure that if you are attending all the sessions it would be great so that you have complete 2 days program. Those who are attending four sessions so they will be attending the full 2 days program. So with this brief instructions we would start today's sessions. You can use chat box to share message regarding certificates we have clarified. Once we receive all the details, now the registration details and uh feedback details in the Zoom platform. Attendance is automatically generated by the platform. So in Zoom there is no problem. We can get your details and verify your attendance and we'll be issuing to all the participants who are attending in Zoom. For YouTube there is no such direct option. So we have to verify using different methodologies. So you have to follow the instructions accordingly and you need to provide your feedback. So it's always better now we have zoom capacity so that uh whoever is attending make sure you are attending in zoom. If you are attending in the same time that is 6:00 to 8 in the morning or evening. So you can invite there is no age, gender or religion, cast screen criteria. Anyone can attend the session and practice and follow the instruction. So you can invite your friends, colleagues, family members, students, scholars to be part of this and we'll provide you a big slide. Those who are watching on YouTube, you can tomorrow we will tomorrow or within 2 three days we'll provide whoever has completed the process and again after one week we will issue the other certificates who are completing. So don't be in a hurry. Do it properly so that your time and our time is also utilized in a better way. So we welcome you all once again to the international webinar series on holistic health well-being and sustainable development 2025 commemorating Azadi Kamrut Mahudsa nation celebrating 77 years of indep Independence and United Nations sustainable development goals 2015 to 2030 and also with Siddbar 2047 and as part of international day of yoga celebrations we are also organizing today's yoga sa in collaboration and officially registered for the yoga sum signature program with ministry. Government of India as part of organizing international yoga day celebrations. So we request all the presenters who are waiting for their presentations can share their details in chat box. We'll invite you after this protocol. So before we start our sessions, let's take the blessings of Almighty. A deep Somebody [Music] with the blessings of almighty we shall continue with today's sessions. So today we are organizing the fourth session of international day of yoga celebrations as we see the 21st of June which is the day of solstice is also celebrated as international day of yoga which is proposed by India to the United Nations and United Nations officially recognized the international day of yoga and this year we are celebrating 11th year of international day of yoga. So as part of this yoga celebrations, we have a common yoga protocol which is being observed on every international day of yoga. So for our convenience and comfort we are also having offline as well as online sessions in a hybrid mode where both we'll be presenting the common yoga protocol video online by watching all of us would be doing at our comfort. Wherever we are in our offices, homes, make yourself comfortable and relaxed. Make your environment peaceful and calm or move to an environment where you can comfortably perform the protocol the asas. As yoga is the union of mind, body and soul. The theme for this year 2025 is yoga for one earth and one health. As this year marks the 11th International Day of Yoga with the theme yoga for one earth, one health jacos, a vital truth that personal wellness and planetary health are inseparably linked and yoga strengthens the body, calms the mind and fosters a heightened sense of awareness and responsibility in daily life. So this mindfulness allows one to choose healthier and more sustainable lifestyles. In caring for ourselves, we begin to care for the earth reflecting the enduring Indian ethos of diver. The world is one and we all are members of one family. So with this brief introduction we'll move on to common yoga protocol without taking much time. In the meanwhile the presenters if any can share your details in chat box so that we can invite you for presentations. So let's begin. So this is the last session. You can participate and be part of this celebrations. You can inform your friends to join. [Music] Namaskar. And global spirit celebration. Shared yoga. Yogud. Fore yoga for labastam. Yog saychech. Yogi Fore is Yogali speech. Y karma yoga. Yogast. Arinfield. [Music] Inhale serenity. Exhale stress. Reach out to flexibility. Leave behind chronic pains. Shut out the world. Tune in to your inner being. Don't work out only for your body. Work out for your mind, body, and spiritual well-being. Add yog to your life. Add life to your lifestyle. While addressing the 69th session of United Nations General Assembly on September 27th, 2014, the honorable prime minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi urged the world community to adopt an international day of yogar [Music] which are karma. [Music] Mortast. fort. [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] due to the government of India concerted efforts. 21st June was established as the International Day of Yog in 2014 supported by a record consensus of 177 co-sponsoring countries in 193 member United Nations General Assembly. In its resolution, the United Nations General Assembly recognized that yog offers a holistic approach to health and well-being while promoting harmony in all aspects of life. This recognition for wider dissemination of information about the benefits of practicing yog for the health and well-being of world population in India. It ushered in an era of holistic health, a revolution based on the principles that prioritize prevention over cure. The ministry of Aayush successfully organized the first international day of yog on 21st June 2015 at Rajput New Delhi where two Guinness World Records were made. One for the largest yog session involving around 36,000 participants and the other for maximum number of nationalities with participants from 84 countries in a single yog session. Over the years, the celebration of International Day of Yog has gained momentum worldwide with new enthusiasts taking up this ancient form of well-being year by year. In the year 2016, when the second international day of yog was celebrated in Chundigar, another record was created that with largest number of people with disabilities performed together. More than 51,000 yog enthusiasts participated in the third international day of yog celebrations at Lacno in the year 2017. Yog is essentially a spiritual discipline based on an extremely subtle science which focuses on bringing harmony between mind and body. Yog is a practice that combines art with science to provide a guide for a healthy lifestyle. Nowadays all the sections of the society participate and practice yog throughout the year. Yog has now become a mass movement. The international day of yog or IDY celebrations began 100 days before Idy. Many organized across the globe to mark the celebrations as a public event. In these 100 days various events like yog at heritage sites, iconic places, guardian ring, ocean ring, yogic to Antarctic, yog sagar mala, yog bharat mala and similar events wider dimensions to ideiy celebrations. The combined efforts and involvement of all stakeholders along the government have made this possible. The practice of common yoke protocol on IDY has become health practice and initiative which has been adopted by more than 300 million people across the globe. According to its Sanskrit root yuj, the word yog means to join or to unite and is said to lead to the union of an individual consciousness with the universal consciousness. Jo is widely regarded as an immortal cultural outcome of the Inda Saraswati Valley civilization dating back to 2,700 BC. Although yog was practiced during the prevadic period, it was Maharishi Patanjali who systematized and codified the practices through yog sutras. For his invaluable contribution to this field of knowledge, he is known as the father of classic yo. Later many masters contributed to the preservation and development of yo by documenting the practices and spreading them worldwide. Today, millions of people across the globe are benefiting from the practice of yog. Recent medical research has shown that regular practice of yog offers a variety of physical and mental benefits working on different levels of an individual such as body, energy, mind and emotion. Each system of yog we practice falls within these categories. These have been further adopted and developed by different schools of yog namely Gan Yog, Bakti Yog, Kog, Patanjal Yog, Huti Yog, Kundalini Yog, Dian Yog, Mantra Yog, Lei Yog, Raj Yog, Jane Yog, Bod Yog, etc. Some of the widely practiced yogadan are yam, nam, pranayam, pratyahar, dharana, dyan, sand, mudra, shatarm, yuktahar, mantra, yuktakarma. A yog practitioner should follow the guiding principles of yogic practices before the practices. Yogiic practices should be performed in a calm and quiet atmosphere with relaxed body and mind. It should be done on an empty stomach or light stomach. Consume a small amount of honey in lukewarm water. If you feel weak, light and comfortable cotton clothes are preferred to facilitate easy movements of the body. In case of chronic diseases or pains or cardiac problems, a physician or yog expert should be consulted prior to performing yogic practices. During the practices, practice sessions should start with a prayer or invocation as it creates a conducive environment to relax. Yogic practices should be performed slowly in a relaxed manner with awareness of the body and breath. Do not hold the breath unless it is specially mentioned to do so. Do not hold the body tightly or jerk the body. Perform the practices according to your own capacity. End the session with deep silence or shanti part. After the practices, food and bath should be taken only 20 to 30 minutes after the practice. Once prepared, step into the world of yog with mindfulness and avail the benefits of this centuries old wisdom. [Music] Let us enter into the world of yog invocation. [Music] [Laughter] [Music] Oh [Music] s chum. [Music] I'm Foreign [Music] [Music] pass. [Music] [Music] Let's start yoga with yogic sukshia vayam or loosening practices to increase micro circulation. Neck movements forward and backward neck bending. Caution avoid this practice in case of severe cervical spondilitis. [Music] Start with alert posture samastiti. Stand with feet 2 to 3 in apart. Keep the hands straight beside the body. Now keep the hands on the waist. While exhaling, move the head forward slowly and try to touch the chest with the chin. As you inhale, bring the head to the center position. While exhaling, move the head backward comfortably. Bring the head to the center position. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Right and left neck bending. Caution. Do not overstrain during this practice. While exhaling, bend the head slowly to the right and bring the ear as close as possible to the shoulder without raising it. Experience stretching on the left side. As you inhale, bring the head to the center position. While exhaling, bend the head slowly to the left side. Experience stretching on the right side. Inhale and bring the head to the center position. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Right and left neck twisting. Caution. Do not jerk the neck. Keep the head upright. While exhaling, gently turn the head to the right so that the chin is in line with the shoulder. As you inhale, bring the head to the center position. While exhaling, gently turn the head to the left. Feel or experience stretching on the right side. Inhale and bring the head to the center position. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Neck rotation. Caution. People with neck pain and cervical spondylosis do this practice carefully. Exhale. Bend the head forward trying to touch the chest with the chin. Inhale slowly. Rotate the head clockwise in a circular motion and exhale while coming down. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Then rotate the head in an anticlockwise direction. Inhale. Go back. Exhale and come down. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Inhale and bring your head to the center position. Exhale. Bring the arms down and relax. Shoulder movements. Shoulders and arms movement. Caution. Frozen shoulder patients should do this practice carefully. Start with alert posture samastiti. Stand with feet 2 to 3 in apart. Place the hands by the sides. Keep the fingers together pointing downwards. While inhaling, move both the arms from the sides up above the head with the palms facing outward. Exhale and bring them down. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Shoulder rotation. Stand straight. Inhale and raise both the arms up to the shoulder level by the sides. Bend the arms at the elbows. Place the fingers on the respective shoulders. Try to touch the elbows in front of the chest and then rotate both the elbows and shoulders in a circular manner. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Inhale while raising the arms and exhale as you bring them down. Repeat the same in a reverse manner for two times. Inhale while raising the arms and exhale as you bring them down. Now inhale and stretch the elbows by the sides. Exhale. Bring the arms down and relax. Trunk movement. Trunk twisting. Caution in case of vertebral disorders do this practice under guidance. Start from the alert posture. Stand with feet about 1 ft apart. Raise arms to the chest level facing each other and keep them parallel. While exhaling, twist the body towards the right side so that the left palm is close to the right shoulder. Come back as you inhale. While exhaling, rotate the trunk and spine towards the left side. Come back with inhalation. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Slowly bring the arms and feet back together. As you exhale, relax. Knee movement. Caution. In case of arthritis and obesity, do this practice carefully. Start in an alert posture. Then keep the feet one foot apart. Inhale. Move the arms up the shoulder level from the front with palms facing downwards. Exhale. Bend the knees and bring down your body to the half squatting position. In the final position, both the arms and thighs should remain parallel to the ground. Come back as you inhale. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Come back with inhalation. Slowly return the arms as you exhale and bring the feet together. Relax. Let's now move towards yogasan, standing postures. Tarasan, the palm tree posture. Caution. Avoid lifting heels in case of arthritis, varicose vein or vertigo. Alert posture. Stand with feet two to three inches apart. Place hands by the sides. Inhale. Lift the arms to the shoulder level from the front and interlock the fingers. Exhale. Turn the palm outwards. Now inhale and stretch the arms over your head. Raise the heels off the floor and balance on the toes. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Bring the heels down. Release the interlock of the fingers. Exhale. Bring the arms down by the sides and come back to the starting position. Relax. Vikasan the three posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of arthritis, vertigo or obesity. Stand in alert posture and focus on a point in front. Exhale. Move the right leg up and place the foot on the inner side of the left thigh. The heel should be in contact with the perennium. Inhale. Extend the arms up and join the palms together in namaskar mudra. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. [Music] Exhale. Bring the arms down. Release the right leg and bring it to the starting position. Repeat on the other side. Exhale. Move the left leg up and place the foot on the inner side of the right thigh. The heel should be in contact with the perennium. Inhale and extend the arms up. Bringing the palms together in namaskar mudra. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Bring the arms down. Release the left leg and bring it to the starting position. Relax. Pad hastasan or the hands to the feet posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of cardiac spinal disorders or glaucoma. Assume standing position with feet 2 in apart. Inhale slowly. Raise the arms upward from the front and stretch up the body from the waist. Exhale and bend forward at the level of the hip joint until both the palms rest on the ground. [Music] Stretch the back to make it as straight as possible. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Slowly inhale and come up to the upright position while stretching the arms above the head. Exhale slowly. Bring down the arms and return to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Arda chakrasan or the half wheel posture. Caution. Avoid this posture in case of vertigo or cardiac problems. Stand with feet 2 in apart. Support the back at the sides of the waist with fingers. Try to keep the elbows parallel to each other. Inhale. Drop the head backwards while stretching the front side of the neck. As you exhale, bend backward from the lumbar region. Maintain the final position for 3 to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale and slowly come up. Exhale and return to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Trionasan, the triangle posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of slip disc, sciatica or after abdominal surgery. Assume the alert posture and step the feet 3 ft apart. Inhale and raise both the arms from the sides up to the shoulder level with palm facing outwards. Turn the right foot towards the right side. Exhale slowly. Bend to the right side and place the right hand just behind the right foot. Turn your head and gaze at the tip of the left middle finger. The left arm is straight in line with the right arm. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale slowly. Come up [Music] and bring the right foot back. Repeat on the other side. Turn the left foot towards the left side. Exhale. Slowly bend to the side and place the left hand just behind the left foot. Turn your head and gaze at the tip of the right middle finger. The right arm is straight in line with the left arm. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale slowly come up [Music] and bring left foot back. Exhale. Bring the arms down and feet together. Come to the starting position and relax. Badrasan. The firm posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of severe arthritis or sciatica. Start with visasan. Support the back with hands. Body should be relaxed in a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front. Keep the hands beside the hips and palms resting on the floor. This is dandasan. Now bring the soles of the feet together. Exhale. Clasp the toes with the hands. Inhale. Put your heels as close as possible to the perennium region. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Release the hands and stretch out the legs in the front. Support the back with hands. Relax. Vajrasan the diamond posture. Caution. Those who are suffering from knee pain or ankle injury should avoid this practice. Start with long sitting posture. Sit straight with legs stretched out in the front. Palms resting on the ground, fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place both the feet in such a way so that the big toes touch each other. Position of the buttocks is in the space between the heels and the feet. Keep hands on your respective knees or thighs. Keep the back straight. Gaze in front or close the eyes. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. When returning to the starting point, bend a little towards the right side to take out your leg and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Arda ustrasan the half camel posture. Caution in case of hernia, abdominal injuries, arthritis or vertigo. Please avoid doing this asan. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front and palms resting on the ground with fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on the respective knees. Stand on your knees. Place the hands on your back with fingers pointing downwards. Keep the elbows parallel. Inhale. Bend the head back and stretch the neck. Exhale. Bend the trunk backwards as much as possible. Keep the thigh perpendicular to the ground. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Come back to kneeling position. Exhale. Sit in vajrasan. Bend a little towards the right side to take out your left leg and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Oshtrasan the camel posture. Caution those suffering from hernia should not practice this asan. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with legs stretched out in the front. Palms resting on the ground and fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on respective knees and stand on your knees. Now bring the knees and feet a few inches apart. While inhaling, bend backwards without jerking the neck. Exhale. Place the right palm on right heel and left palm on left heel. Weight of the body should be evenly supported by the arms and legs. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale, come back to kneeling position. Exhale, sit in vajrasan. Bend a little towards the right side to take the left leg out and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Shashakasan the hair posture. Caution. Avoid this posture in case of osteoarthritis of the knees. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front, palms resting on the ground and fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on respective knees. Inhale. Spread both the knees wide apart. Place the palms between the knees. Exhale. Bend forward with arms outstretched and place the chin on the ground. Keep the arms parallel. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Come up [Music] and close the knees together. Bend a little towards the right side to take the left leg out and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Utan mandukasan. The stretched up frog posture. Caution. Patients with osteoarthritis of the knees should avoid kneeling position. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front, palms resting on the ground and fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on respective knees. Spread the knees wide apart. Inhale. Slowly raise the arms upward from the front. Exhale. Fold them from the elbow and place the palms on alternate shoulder blades. Right palm on left shoulder blade and left palm on right shoulder blade. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Now inhale and raise the arms up. Exhale bring the arms down and close the knees together. Bend a little towards the right side to take the left leg out and extend it. Similarly extend the right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Vakrasen the seated twist posture. Caution. Avoid this posture in case of acute back pain or spinal disorders. Start with long sitting posture. Sit with the back straight and legs stretched out in front. Bend the right leg and place the right foot beside the left knee. Place the right palm beside the body. Bring the left arm around the right knee and place the palm beside the right foot. Inhale. Stretch the back. Exhale. Turn the body and head to the right. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale and come back. We will now repeat the same on the left side. Bend the left leg and place the left foot beside the right knee. Place the left palm beside the body. Bring the right arm around the left knee and place the palm beside the left foot. Inhale. Stretch the back. Exhale. Twist the head and body to the left. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Come back to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Prone postures. Makrasen. The crocodile posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of pregnancy and frozen shoulder. Start with vajrasan. Slowly lie down on the stomach with feet together and toes pointing outwards. Place the chin on the ground. Stretch your arms forward. Open the feet apart with toes pointing sideways. Bend your elbows and rest the chin on the hands. Lift the head up and place your cheek on the hands. Close the eyes and allow the entire body to relax. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Remain aware of the body and breathing. Bjangasan the cobra posture. Caution those suffering with hernia or stomach ulcers should not practice this asan. Start with macakarasan. Now join the legs. Stretch your arms forward and rest the chin on the ground. Now place your palms beside the chest and elbows close to the body. Inhale slowly and lift the head and chest up to the naval region with the help of spinal muscles. Keep the elbows parallel. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Bring the head down and rest your chin on the ground. Relax in macarasan. Shalhasan the locust posture. Caution. Patients with severe lower back pain, peptic ulcer, hernia or cardiac should avoid this posture. Start with macakarasan. Now join the legs and place both hands beside the body, palms facing downwards. Inhale and lift both the legs off the floor without bending the knees. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale and bring the legs down to the floor. Relax in macakarasan. Supine postures situhasan. The bridge posture. Caution. If you have stomach ulcers or hernia, it is not recommended to practice this asan. Lie down on the ground. Stretch out your legs comfortably and place the palms facing downwards. Bend both the legs at the knees and bring the heels near the buttocks while holding both the ankles as per your convenience. Inhale slowly raise your buttocks and trunk up as much as you can to form a bridge and maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Slowly bring your hips down and straighten the legs in supine position. Relax. Utan padasan. The raised leg posture. Caution. Individuals with hypertension should practice this by alternating between legs. Lie comfortably on the ground with legs stretched out. Hands placed by the sides and palms facing down. While inhaling, slowly raise both legs without bending them at the knees until you are able to see the tips of toes. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale slowly. Bring both legs down and place them on the ground. Relax. Arda halasan. The half plow posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of abdominal injuries, hernia or lumbosacral pains. Lie comfortably on the ground with legs stretched out. Keep hands placed by the side and palms facing down. Inhale slowly raise both the legs without bending them at the knees and bring them vertical to the ground. The body from hip to shoulder should be kept straight. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale slowly. Bring the legs down to the ground without lifting the head. Relax. Pavan muktasan. the wind-freeing posture. Caution, avoid this practice in case of abdominal injuries, hernia, sciatica or severe back pain. Lie comfortably on the ground with legs stretched out, hands placed by the sides and palms facing downwards. Bend both the knees. Exhale, bring the knees towards the chest. Inhale. Interlock the fingers and clasp the shin below knees. Exhale. Raise the head up until the chin or nose touches the knees. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Bring the head back to the ground. Exhale. Release the legs back to the floor. Lie down in supine position. [Music] Relax. [Music] Shavasan, the corpse posture. Lie down on the ground. Open the feet apart with toes pointing sideways and palms facing upwards. Close your eyes. Consciously relax the whole body. Become aware of the natural flow of breath. It will tend to become slow. Remain in the position until you feel refreshed and relaxed. [Music] While coming back, slowly stretch your arm over the head and join the feet. Then turn by the side either right or left and come back to the sitting position with the support of the hands. [Music] Kapal bhi. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of cardiac conditions, epilepsy, hernia, gastric ulcer or during menstrual cycle. Sit in any comfortable position. Keep the spine and head straight with eyes closed. Place the hands on the knees in ghan mudra. Inhale deeply through both the nostrils till you start to experience fullness in the pelvic region and expansion in the chest. Expel the breath with forceful contractions of the lower abdominal muscles and let the inhalation be passive. Let us begin the first round of kapal bhhati with 20 strokes. [Music] Exhale deeply and relax. This is one round of kapal bhhati. Repeat two more rounds with 20 strokes each. [Music] Nari shodhan parayam the alternate nostril breathing start with sitting in any comfortable posture. Breath should be slow, steady and controlled. Keep spine and head straight with the eyes closed. Relax the body with few deep breaths. Keep the left palm on the left knee in gan mudra and the right hand should be in pranayam mudra with the middle and the index fingers folded like this. Close the right nostril with the right thumb and exhale completely. Now inhale through the left nostril. Recognize the touch of air moving through your body as pra. Then close the left nostril with the ring and little finger of the right hand and exhale through the right nostril. Now inhale through the right nostril. Close the right nostril with the thumb and exhale through the left nostril. This is one round of nari shodhan praam. Repeat it for four more rounds. Shittali pranayam. Caution. People suffering from cuff, cold or tonsillitis should avoid the practice of this pranayam. Sit in any comfortable posture. Keep the spine and head straight with eyes closed. Place the hands on the knees in ghan mudra. Roll up the tongue and shape it as a tube. Inhale maximum air through the tongue. [Music] Take the tongue inside the mouth and close the mouth. Then slowly exhale through the nostrils. This is one round of pranayam. Repeat it for four rounds. [Music] Brahri pranayam. Sit in any comfortable posture. [Music] Keep the spine and head straight with eyes closed. Place the hands on the knees in gan mudra and inhale deeply through the nose. Exhale slowly making a deep humming sound. [Laughter] Repeat one more round. [Music] Practice the brahri pranayam with shanmuki mudra. Using your index fingers, gently close your eyes. Then place your middle finger beside your nose without fully covering it. Place your ring finger on your upper lip and your pinky finger on your lower lip. Finally, rest your thumbs on your ears as demonstrated in the video. Inhale deeply through the nose. Exhale slowly making a deep humming sound. [Laughter] [Music] Repeat one more round. Dan. Sit in any comfortable position. Place the hands on the knees in gan mudra. Close your eyes. Now adopt dhan mudra and sit in a slightly upturned phase. You need not concentrate. Just maintain a mild focus between the eyebrows and be conscious of your breath. Let them flow freely. Just observe the flow if impossible. Let the thoughts dissolve. [Music] [Music] [Laughter] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Now time for us to take sulp. I commit myself to remain in a balanced state of mind all the time. It is in this state that my development reaches its greatest possibility. I commit to do my duty to the self, family, at work, to society and to the world for the promotion of peace, health and harmony. Yoga practice would end with shanti part or the universal prayer for everyone's peace and prosperity. [Music] SH [Music] maya. Oh, [Music] mash dab. [Music] [Music] Shanty, shanty, shanty. [Music] [Music] Hope everyone is relax and has enjoyed the common yoga protocol. and also experience the union of body, mind and soul. So yoga has been proved and tested over time and space and even today it stands as a testimony for safe, affordable, accessible way for our health and wealth. So with this we shall come to an end to the common yoga protocol that is being practiced on international day of yoga. Now I invite any presentations for the day. Before we close this session and those who have not registered are requested to register using the registration form which has been shared in the form of polls is still active. So we request everyone to switch on your videos so that we can take a screenshot. As it will be a memory for all of us to be part of this celebrations. We request everyone to switch on their videos for a moment. Once we take screenshot, you can switch off your cameras. [Music] [Music] This is a wonderful opportunity for everyone. Request everyone to switch on their cameras for a moment. Dear participants, we request everyone to switch on your videos. We are taking screenshot now. Okay, thank you everyone. Now you may switch off your videos. Vinnie you can share your details in chat box on what topic you are presenting. Do you have any PPT? You can unmute now if it is oral. You can have your brief introduction and continue with your presentation. Anyone else would like to share or make presentation? Share your details in chat box. We'll invite you one after the other. Good evening sir. Yeah you are audible. Yeah thank you. So can I start? Yes ma'am. Go ahead. Okay. Thank you. Uh so namaste to everybody who's present. uh here today uh I would like uh to present uh since it's yoga day and it's a very special day for all of us uh I uh my name is Venita and I am a Montaseri trainer and uh also a yoga trainer so I have been recently uh certified uh and uh it's a honor and a pleasure to be here on this platform to be presenting I did present last year as well and I feel happy to be here once again. I missed yesterday's session uh but I'm happy that I could make it today. So um my uh presentation today uh would be about uh pranayyama. So uh since the theme for um this year is one earth one breath uh one earth uh one life uh one one health sorry uh you know since it's directly connected to health I thought I would pick the topic on pranayama to do this. So um my topic will revolve around the power of breath. So I'm going to be doing an introduction to pranayyama. So it would be approximately a short uh a session. Uh what I would be doing is getting you to uh discover uh the beauty of breath. We will be uh uh I will be making you aware of the breath u you know how your breath channelizes inside of you. So this whole topic today is a journey inward. So outside nobody would know what you're doing. But if you can focus then you will understand what's happening on the inside. So before I get to pranayama we did watch a video which explained everything uh that I wanted to but I would just like to give a quick brief about it. So uh to start off with pranayama is a part of yoga. So uh since it's international yoga day, let's understand what yoga is. Yoga means union and in Sanskrit it means yuj. So yuj means union. And here the union that we're talking about is the union between the self that's the jvatma and the divine which is the paratma. So uh what yoga does it it builds a union between everything the work that you do the people that you interact and the union is very uplifting. So any union that is uplifting can be termed as yoga. Now in yoga according to ashtanga yoga we have eight limbs which was spoken earlier which is our yama nyama our asana pranayyama pratyahara our dharma dana and our samadi. So the ultimate goal is moka which is liberation. So here u the topic that I'm picking up today is the fourth limb of ashtanga which is um pranayama. So I will be focusing on pranayama today. Just an introduction to what pranayama is. That's about it. So pranayama is a vast ocean and uh you know we will just be getting a glimpse of that ocean uh today. Uh whenever we do pranayyama we need to keep in mind that a little bit of asa needs to practice first. Well, if you are a little old and you're unable to do the asa or you're sick and you're not able to do asa, it's all right. Gentle stretches is a must before you do your pranayyama. That's why the order is there. It's the eight limbs of ashtanga yoga. So you have your you need to have your yamas, your nyamas in place and you need to do your asa and only then get to pranayyama. All right. So now to understand what pranayyama is, pranayyama means, prana it's divided into two words prana plus ayama. Now prana means your life force. Now don't confuse pranayama to the breath. Pranayama here is the life force. Breath is the channel through which the prana flows in. And our stomach is just the controller of the breath. And ayama is not controlling. We do not control prana. We only nourish it and we channelize it. So ayama means expansion. So in pranayyama we are working on being aware of our breath and expanding our breath which is the most important thing. Okay. Now let's understand the benefits of pranayama. So whenever you start doing something you need to know how this is going to help you. So if you look at it, there are physical benefits. Uh for example, it works on the expansion of your lungs. It works on uh your heart. It works on regulating your heart, your blood pressure, your digestion, which is the most important thing. Uh so if you look at uh the other aspects, okay, uh it also works on your uh emotional aspect as well. It works on your mental aspect. It works on your spiritual aspect. So if you look at emotional, it works on your anxiety. It works on your stress level. It works on helping you be calm. If you look at your energy aspect, I think everybody's fighting with anxiety nowadays. Everybody is fighting uh wanting to have a calm mind and people really don't know what to do. So they pop pills in without un without knowing that there is such a beautiful system in place called pranayama which can actually work on your nervous system and actually calm you down. So that's what that's where we're getting into today. So if you look at the other aspects even the spiritual aspect it works on your chakras in um balancing our chakras unblocking our chakras it works on our third eye our intuition. So there's a lot of benefits that come with it. So overall if you look at it, it works on our respiratory system, circulatory system, our nervous system, our excrettory, our digestion system. So it's a full package. However, keep in mind pranayyama shouldn't be learned on your own. Don't watch YouTube and learn it. That's a huge mistake that you would be making. You should always learn pranayama with a teacher, a guru or a teacher who is wellversed in pranayama. Because if it's done right, it actually increases your longevity. The quality of life will improve. But if you do it on your own and if you don't do it right, if the prana is not channelized in the right way, it could be detrimental and you would be causing damage to your body and yourself. So it's important that you learn it from a teacher or a guru themselves. Now moving ahead uh since none of you are uh you know on camera uh I wouldn't be able to do uh something practical it would be nice if you could go on camera then you know having an eye connection actually helps otherwise uh you know doing a I'm not doing a very uh vast practical session it's just about making you aware uh of your breath. But even for that, I need to know that you're doing it right. So um if anyone is interested, at least a few of you, if you would like to go turn your videos on, it would actually be nice. Now just wait for 10 seconds and if there is somebody who goes [Music] I think everybody is camera shy on the group cuz I heard Rainda says sir requesting us ample number of times to turn our videos on to take a picture. All right, I am guessing that none of you uh are willing to but that's absolutely fine. I'll just continue orally. Hopefully, you'll be able to understand what I am uh saying. Okay. So, what I want you to experience is I want you to experience your breath. So, wherever you are right now, just sit comfortably. Absolutely comfortably. Uh maybe you can sit in sukasana. Okay? That is uh a cross-legg posture. Okay? And you can close your eyes. Just close your eyes and breathe normally and breathe naturally. Absolutely naturally. Keep your eyes closed and keep focusing on your breath. It needs to be absolutely natural. There should be no change. Don't force any kind of breathing but just do normal breathing. Now, as you're normally breathing, I would like you to observe and see where does this breath move. As you're inhaling, check till where your breath is traveling. And as you're exhaling, check what's happening in your body. Which part of your body is actually moving. [Music] Okay. Now, as you're inhaling and exhaling, just try to check when you inhale, does your stomach rise when you inhale? Does your stomach rise when you inhale? Does your rib the ribs do they expand when you inhale? And does your chest rise when you exhale? Sorry. Inhale. So when you inhale, your belly should rise or expand. Your ribs will expand to the side and your chest will rise. Now when you exhale, your chest will relax, your ribs will soften, your stomach will get drawn inside. Now this is the right way of breathing. So if you're getting it right then great. Most of us what happens when we are inhaling we actually draw our stomach inside. That's not right. When you inhale your stomach needs to come out and when you exhale your stomach needs to go in. All right. Now as you're breathing keep trying to see if this is happening. Well, if it's not happening, then you can start doing this consciously going forward. But make sure there's no strain. Remember, whenever you're doing a pranayama or a breathing session, you should never strain yourself. If you feel any kind of discomfort, you need to come back to your normal breathing. Okay. The other key now the second part is the other key uh to ensure that you're breathing right is having long exhalations. Now uh I told you you'll have longevity that means you'll live longer if you start breathing right and you'll have a quality life. Now you may ask me how. Now for example if you look at a dog how does a dog breed? Okay the dog breeds really fast. What about a rabbit? A rabbit breeds super fast. But how long do they live for? A dog lives for about 10 years, 12, max 14 years, and that's about it. However, look at an elephant or look at a tortoise. They breathe their one breath is like really long. For example, a tortoise breathes takes about 2 and 1/2 to 3 minutes to take one breath. And a tortoise lives for about 250 to 300 years. So if you look at our sages who are in the Himalayas, if you look at our sages who are like really old and still going great, the secret behind that is the pranayama. So what happens in this fast-faced world is we are breathing very shallow. We just inhale and before we could even inhale, we are exhaling. And the exhaling is really short. You need to understand what happens when you're inhaling and exhaling. When you're exhaling, the impurities in our bodies are thrown out. And what we do by having shorter exhalations is the impurities remain in our body and that's what causes illness to us. So if you can work on channelizing your prana and the impurities getting thrown out by increasing our inhalation and exhalation remember the exhalation should always be longer than your inhalation that's when you will have good quality life. So how do you uh increase exhalation is you do a normal inhale and you exhale out completely. Try to exhale completely. If you've never done that before, your capacity would be just two counts or four counts. You should at least have a minimum of at least 8 to 10 counts. That would be a good exhalation. So, uh whenever you're doing pranayyama, do not force yourself. You need to take it one step at a time. So, if your exhalation is two today, tomorrow you try to work on three. Day after on four. And if you're finding four difficult, stay on four till you feel comfortable. It could be 1 day, 1 week, 1 month, even a year. It's absolutely fine. But go slow. That's when it's going to be very very impactful. Okay. Now, after you do your pranayama, it's very important that you sit quietly observing your breath. You need to relax before you come back to being normal. So the takeaway here is that be conscious of your breath everywhere. Whether you're walking, sitting, lying down, from now on, try to see. Okay, the takeaway here is what I want you to practice going forward is trying to be aware and conscious of your exhalation. So try to make your exhalations longer. that would help you to have quality life. There are a lot of pranayamas, okay? I've not even taught you one because it's time consuming and everything can't be taught in a day. It has to go one step at a time. You need to master one and then go to the other one. But the basic thing you need to do before starting pranayyama is being aware of your breath. Two is increasing the capacity of your exhalations. Once you're good at this, then you can start with pranayyama. And there are a lot of pranayyamas about 11 to 14 uh pranayamas. So we have something called as the calming pranayamas. We have the heating pranayamas. Uh we have the relax pranayamas that relax you. And everything has uh a support from the text spiritual text. Uh so uh everything is validated, experienced by our sages and given to us and it is a beautiful practice and I have seen uh practically that pranayyama does work. I've met a lot of people who've been doing pranayyama for about 30 40 years and they aged about 80 to 90 now and they're doing really well. So pranayama does work. So um uh ending my session today I would uh like to thank all of you to have listened to me and I hope you will be taking back something from my uh session. Uh so if you would like to know more about pranayama or learn more about pran pranayama if you have anybody who wants to learn you can contact me. I am on Instagram so you can contact me and uh I will be doing a lot of sessions in the future so you can be a part of it. So uh namaste and uh thank you everyone for being a part of my session. Thank you sir. So you're muted. Yeah. Thank you for your wonderful session. Thank you. So anyone has any queries or observations? See, you can raise your hand. we can allow you or you can use the chat box as well and if anyone else want to present also you are welcome cuz with this we are closing the today's yoga day celebrations and we appreciate everyone who have been part of this today's celebrations It is yesterday two sessions in the morning and evening and today also in the morning and evening. So we request everyone to quickly fill up the feedback form which will be raised in the form of polls same way as you have filled the registration form and ensure that you are completing the form with all relevant details. Don't leave anything blank, incomplete, invalid. We will send you a mail with the details how to get certificate. So once you complete all the formalities to and we will also send you a link from where you can download your website uh your certificate from the website. The website link is already provided in the WhatsApp the message from which you have joined but as a reminder also we will send you through email. So ensure that all your details are correct and valid. So, We request everyone to quickly fill up the feedback form which has been raised in the form of quotes. As you all know that we have been regularly organizing commemorations and celebrations on this international platform. We are also organizing various conferences, symposiums, workshops, webinars as part of this international webinar series every day from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. So this stands as one of the largest commemorations, the two daily commemorations which are free. So you can see no other organization is conducting such a widespread multid-disciplinary event. So this is a wonderful opportunity for everyone. A wonderful platform for everyone to come together to share your knowledge and also gain knowledge. So utilize this opportunity to utilize the platform in a right way and gain as well as share the knowledge. So we thank each and everyone for joining us in this two days international day of yoga celebrations and in yoga sangam. So we'll be closing the session in another 5 minutes. So we request everyone to fill the feedback form which has been raised in the form of polls with all the details and we'll be sending an email tomorrow to all the participants to the email address which you have provided through the registration and feedback forms. We request you to complete the formalities and in a week's time you'll all be getting certificates. The link will also be shared to your email and those who are attending