In your row, we stand up. Just come together to your side. Normally, we make a circle. At the end, we will >> exhale. Believe it or not, we can go forward. Feel free to bend your knee. >> Now we come up. meditation. Let go superficial mind dancing in them. And since these are the arms wonderful touching the earth, >> touching the earth now to open up the pathway intensity and let it awaken us to the body. As we exhale, we're going to open our heart now. Feel the heart energy, ease or patience. Just for my friends who may be your teachers, we might spread love whether your knees are bent or straight legs. Now, of course, still leaning on the scars that start at the top of the raft forward. Otherwise, swing it forward. If it gets stuck, just take your hand and bring it forward and love to the other side. >> Now, watch me for a moment. >> And exhale. So take this as the bow. Namasta try. Exhale knee to navl. Bring the foot forward. Now bring your feet together. Feet together. Right leg to the sky. Rising like the sun. Feel the mouth. Light of my soul. You burn the heart and make me >> down. Cleanse my heart. >> Now touch your vision center, your heart center. Go down to the earth. And now slowly come down. Open your arms. In the dark sky back, listen to the earth. >> And now go back to center. Toes out, heels in. Blowing along. your heart flowing along. >> So let your inhale and support exhale the tanas and hands go down the other side. part of a culture. In harmony with Latia under your feet. Any samscars under your feet as you like. You can be as big and as you like. Do you want to play? Are you okay? to keep expanding out. So, we're really using the whole space. Yes. >> Yeah. Go go a little chaotic in the middle. That's how it happens. You're in the circle. But you probably have been some of you are Gujarati solar size. Oh, Lunar was off the chart. He was in a mystic state, so he couldn't see it beaming at him. So, right. Now getting ready for electric day. >> Now I think we can go in a circle. I think we can >> get side to side at first, >> but to invite her to join us in these movements. So nice. >> Once you get it, you can express your heart, your natural joy. >> Okay, never mind. Yeah, some of you are great dancers. You're just a little rusty. >> Every situation lifts me higher. I feel lucky every morning. >> It's very normal. And if you didn't and you still cramp up, that means you need to add a little bit of salt in your water. Stay with your breath. Feet are always a little wider than your hips. Toes are pointing out. And now if possible, without making too many adjustments, bring your butt down. Keep opening your chest. Stay with your breath. Januarasan revolving knee to head pose and come up. If this posture is too easy for you, bring that left arm between your legs and make a bind with your right hand. Bring your left arm behind you and try to make a bind. If you can't make a bind, you can just grab onto your t-shirt. So, raise your arms up. Try not to release your arms. Release your legs and exhale back forward. If possible to interlock your fingers around your left foot, your leg open your chest. I look at this as a really nice preparation for the next posture. Any variation of your choice cramp up is very normal. And if you didn't and you still cramp up, that means you need to add a little bit of salt in your water. Stay here with your breath. Feet are always a little wider than your hips. Toes are pointing out and now if possible without making too many adjustments. Bring your butt down. Keep opening your chest. Stay with your breath. The Januasan revolving knee to head pose and come up. If this posture is too easy for you, bring that left arm between your legs and then combine with your right hand. Bring your left arm behind you and try to make a bind. If you can't make a bind, you can just grab onto your t-shirt. So, raise your arms up. Try not to release your arms. Release your legs. Exhale. Back forward. If possible, interlock your fingers around your left foot. Your left foot. Open your chest. I look at this as a really nice preparation for the next posture. Any variation of your choice. You can just have your leg or have your right elbow outside your left leg. Left hand down if possible without making too many adjustments. Bring your butt down. Keep opening your chest. Stay with your breath. Januarasan revolving knee to head pose. and come up. If this posture is too easy for you, bring that left arm between your legs and make a bind with your right hand. Bring your left arm behind you and try to make a bind. If you can't make a bind, you can just grab onto your t-shirt. Raise your arms up. Try not to release your arms. Release your legs and exhale back forward. If possible, interlock your fingers around your left foot. Open your chest. I look at this as a really nice preparation for the next posture. any variation of your choice. >> Make some noise, please. >> Lift yourself up and lift around. Inhale. Keep the legs tall. Austral Austral two more minutes. One more man to get on. Climb the mountain. Time for the beat. Yeah. Sh. She She might Oh, God. Must be mighty. Not only where Maharishi Gene meditated, lived and taught. How that is actually the real where musicians shared their channels awaken. They were channels of grace throughout separate from each other about how it's going to manifest through you. Just let it be >> to Buddha to Allah. If you throw the poison only technique I was given the silence. Happy.