[music] [music] [music] [music] [music] [music] [music] [music] [music] [music] Heat. Heat. [music] >> [music] [music] >> Heat. Heat. [music] >> [music] >> Heat. Heat. >> [music] [music] [music] >> Yeah. >> [music] [music] [music] >> Namaste and a very good morning to all respected elders and all our dear brothers and sisters who are accompanying us today. The first day marking the auspicious beginning of our 21-day yoga for unity challenge. This is a very special journey that will lead us together towards the celebration of the international day of yoga for the year 2026. It is an honor, a joy, a privilege to be together on the first day of this preparatory phase for the challenge. Heartfulness is delighted to also welcome all friends, family members, brothers and sisters who are joining us to practice with us live both from the meditation hall at Kanha Shanti Vanam and those who are joining us online. Over the next 21 days, thousands of people from more than 160 countries, cultures, and backgrounds are coming together each day in a shared spirit of harmony and well-being. Through the practice of asana, pranayyama and heartfulness meditation, we will not only be nurturing our physical and mental health, but we will also experience the deeper unity that yoga inspires among all of us. Yoga reminds us that beyond our differences, we are all connected by a common humanity. As we breathe together, move together and meditate together, we create a powerful field of collective peace and unity that extends far beyond these sessions. We are especially happy to share that from June 15th onwards, Heartfulness Global Yoga Teachers will be offering daily classes at convenient morning timings locally across the world in more than 10 languages. Mandarin, Korean, Vietnamese, English, Arabic, Farsy, French, Italian, German, Spanish and Portuguese. This way throughout the day from one time zone to another people across the world will be coming together in practice creating a living wave of yoga for unity that circles the earth and we are all going to be a part of it. We invite all friends, family, brothers and sisters to join us throughout this entire 21-day journey. Also invite those we know, those we care for to register for the challenge if you have not already done so. All registered participants will continue to rem to receive updates, resources and an official certificate of participation upon completion of the program. We thank everyone for being a part of this global celebration for yoga and unity. So let us now begin this journey with openness, joy and the aspiration to bring greater harmony within ourselves and the world around us to begin the session of yoga and asa and pranayyama. I now invite Vishnu who will lead us through the session and I invite Ankita Tari who will be with us in the yoga demonstration. Namaste everyone. First of all, I would like to thank masters for giving us this opportunity and I would like to thank all of you who worked be behind this program for make this program a success and I would like to thank all of you who are here present online and in Kangha for being part of this program. So these classes will be beginners friendly. So today's class we will be focusing mainly on our breath. How to breathe in an asa practice and we will take only 30 minutes to do the practice. Okay. So I hope all of you are ready. Let's begin the practice. Yes. So you can sit comfortably on the mat or on the chair. Make sure your back is straight. We will begin by scanning ourself connecting with our body. First you can slowly scan your body from the toes to the top of your head. Just check how your toes, feet and ankles are. How is your calf muscles, your knees? How you are seated on the mat right now? Are you comfortable or not? Make sure your back is straight, shoulders relaxed, arms relaxed, chin slightly closer to your neck. You can have your eyes closed, forehead relaxed. Have a gentle smile on your face. Connect with your body. Now slowly bring that attention to your breath. Just observe how you are breathing right now. your normal breath. Slowly bring that attention to your heart. Try to feel your heartbeat. Once you slow down your breath, once your mind is calm, you will be able to listen to your heartbeat. Once you are connected with your heart, please ask yourself what is your goal or your purpose or your intention behind doing this practice. Make sure you fix your goal before doing your practice. Once you fix your goal, have a gentle suggestion or prayer, whatever your goal is, let this practice help you in achieving it. Okay? with this prayer in the heart. Now slowly place your right palm on your abdomen area. Now focus only on your exhalation how you are breathing out. You can inhale freely or let the inhalation happen automatically. Take a pause. Bring attention to your abdomen area. Slow and gentle exhalation. As you exhale, slowly pull in your abdomen area. We will do this two more rounds. Three. Inhale. Attention on your abdomen. Slow and gentle exhalation. Last round. Free inhale. Take a pose. Bring attention on your abdomen area. Slow and gentle exhalation. Once done, breathe normally here. Now place your left palm on your chest. Now focus only on your inhalation. Slow and gentle inhalation. Feel the expansion of your chest on all the sides, your front side and upper back. And exhale freely. Pause. Attention on your chest. Slow and gentle inhalation. Feel the expansion of your chest and exhale freely. Do this two more round yourself. Attention on your chest. Slow and gentle inhalation and exhale freely. Last round. Now you can relax your palms on your knees. Breathe normally and observe yourself. Okay. Now we can slowly stand up on the mat. So throughout the practice we will follow the same breathing technique. So make sure whenever you are breathing in whenever you are inhaling attention is on your chest and whenever you are exhaling attention is on your abdomen. So now we will stand in samai. So you can join your feet together, palms to the side of your body, fingers are straight, shoulders relaxed, chin closer to your neck, and make sure you fix your attention on a point in front of you. This is samasti. Now we will see how to breathe in an asa practice. So you can follow my instruction. So attention on your chest. Start inhaling. Then slowly start raising your arms up from the sides. Both arms up. From the sides and join your palms up at the top. All the way up. Join your palms all the way up. Yes. Finish the breath. Then finish the movement. Then finish your breathing. Pause. Attention on your abdomen. Start exhaling slowly. Bring your arms down from the sides. Finish the movement of your arm. Then finish your exhalation. Okay, I will repeat. Attention on your chest. Slowly start inhaling. Then slowly start raising your arms up from the side. Finish the movement of your arms. Then finish your inhalation. Take a pose. Attention on abdomen. Start exhaling. Slowly bring your arms down from the sides. Finish the movement of your arm then finish your exhalation. So we are doing very slow and gentle practice. Let's do again. Attention on your chest. Start inhaling slowly. Start raising your arms up from the sides. Finish the movement of your arms all the way up. Yes. Take a pause. Start exhaling slowly. Bring your arms down from the sides. Finish the movement of your arms, then finish your exhalation. Okay, you can do one more round yourself. Make sure you do it with this breathing technique. Movement of your arms is in between your breath. Start exhaling slowly. Bring your arms down from the sides. Finish the movement of your arm then finish your exhalation. Yes. So with the same technique now we will also include our neck movement. So one of our aim is during these practices we will also learn the asenas that is provided in common yoga protocol. So common yoga protocol start with neck movements. So with this same technique we will include neck movement also. So attention on your chest. Start your inhalation. Start raising your arms up from the sides. And slowly look up joining your palms together. And look at your palms. Head up. Yes. Take a pause. Start exhaling slowly. Bring your arms down and head down. Very good. Two more rounds. Attention on your chest. Start your inhalation. Start raising your arm up and look up at your palms. Take a pose. Attention on your abdomen. Start exhaling slowly. Bring your arms down from the sides and look down. Yes. Last round. Do it yourself. Raise your arms up and look up. Pause. Start exhaling slowly. Bring your arms down from the sides and look down. Very good. You can stand in samasti. Now we will do one more practice for the neck. We are going to look left and right with a moment. So in samasti you can look at the tip of your left palm. Left middle finger. You can look down to the tip of your left middle finger. Yes. As you inhale, raise your arms to shoulder level from the front and keep on looking at your middle finger. Very good. Take a pause. Start exhaling. Slowly place your left palm on your right shoulder. Turn your head and look at your left palm. Very good. Take a pause. As you inhale, slowly bring your arm back to middle. Keep on looking at your left palm. Pause. Start exhaling. Slowly bring your arm down from the front. Correct. Same on same technique we will do on the right side. So keep on looking at your right palm. Now as you inhale, raise your arm up from the front and keep on looking at your right palm. Take a pause. Start exhaling. Slowly bring your right palm to left shoulder. Turn your head to the left side. Pause. As you inhale, come to middle. Head straight. Pause. As you exhale, slowly bring your arm down and looking at the right palm. Very good. We will do same on the left side again. As you inhale, raise your arm up to shoulder level from the front and keep on looking at your left palm. Take a pause. Start exhaling. Slowly bring your left palm to right shoulder and turn your head to right side. Very good. Pause. As you inhale, come to middle. Keep on looking at your fingers. As you exhale, slowly bring your arms down. Keep on looking at your left palm. Now look at your right palm. As you inhale, raise your arm up. Come to middle. Very slowly. Movement is in between the breath. Take a pause. Start exhaling. Place your right palm on the left shoulder. Again, same technique. Movement in between your breath. As you inhale, come to middle. Pause. As you exhale, slowly bring your arms down from the front. Yes. Last round. Starting with the left side. So, look at your left palm. As you inhale slowly raise your arm up to shoulder level and keep on looking at your left palm. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Start exhaling. Place your left palm on the right shoulder and turn your head to the right side. Pause. As you inhale, come to middle. Keep on looking at your left palm. Pause. Start exhaling slowly. Bring your arm down from the front. Yes. Same on the right side. As you inhale, raise your arm up to shoulder level. Pause. As you exhale, place your right palm on left shoulder. Turn your head to yes, right side. As you inhale, come to middle. Pause. As you exhale, slowly bring your arm down from the front. Very good. Now you can stand in shidila tadasana. You can have your legs apart. Open your palms, chin closer to the neck. And if you are very comfortable, you can close your eyes or keep your eyes open and observe yourself after doing this simple practice with this breathing technique. What are the changes you are able to experience in your system, in your body, your breath and your thoughts? Just observe yourself. Okay, we are moving to the next posture. So again you can stand in samastidi joining your feet together, palms to the sides, shoulders relaxed and chin closer to your neck. Now we will do a very simple forward bend because we have done an asymmetrical posture for every asa. There is a positive side and there is also a negative side. So we have to keep the positive with us and we have to neutralize the negative effect. For that we will do counter postures. So as you inhale raise your arms from the sides to shoulder level. Yes. Take a pose. As you exhale bend forward from your lower back placing the palms back side of your palms on your lower back. Take a pause. Attention on your chest. As you inhale, raise your arms to shoulder level from the sides and come up. Pause. As you exhale, slowly bring your arms down from the sides. Very good. We will do two more rounds. Attention on your chest. As you inhale, raise your arms up from the sides to shoulder level. Movement is in between your breath. Start your exhalation. Start bending forward. Placing your palms on your back. Pause. Attention on your chest. Start inhaling. Raise your arms to shoulder level from the sides and come up. Pause. Attention on abdomen. Slowly bring your arms down. Okay, one more round. Attention on your chest. As you inhale, raise your arms up from the sides to shoulder level. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale and bend forward. Placing your palms on your lower back. Pause. Attention on your chest. Inhale and come up. Stretching arms to the sides. Pause. As you exhale, slowly bring your arms down. Correct. Here with the same technique we are going to do one asa. It's called tad asana. Okay. So let's do it together. Stand in samastidi. Feet together, palms to the sides, shoulders relaxed, chin closer to the neck and make sure you fix your attention on a point in front of you. Now as you inhale raise your arms up from the sides and raise your heels up joining your palms together. Take a pause attention on your abdomomen. Start exhaling slowly. Bring your arms down from the sides and heels back on the mat. Make sure you synchronize the movement of your arm and your heels. Your palms will touch the thighs and heels will touch the mat at the same time. Okay, let's do again. Attention on your chest. Start your inhalation. Start raising your arms up, heels up, and join your palms together. Pause. Attention on your abdomen. Start exhaling slowly. Bring your arms down from the sides and heels back on the mat. Again, attention on your chest. Start your inhalation. Start raising your arms up, your heels up, and join your palms together. Pause. Attention on your abdomen. Start exhaling. Slowly bring your arms down from the sides and heels back on the mat. Okay, you can do this one more round yourself. Make sure you follow the same breathing technique. Movement is in between your breath. Start exhaling. Slowly bring your arms down and heels back on the mat. Very good. Again you can stand in tadasana. You can have your legs apart. Open your palms. Close your eyes and observe yourself. So tadasana is a balancing posture. This posture will bring balance into both physically and mentally into your system. Okay. Once completed, you can just lie down on the mat. Okay. Lie down on the mat with your knees bent and feet on the mat. Yes. Fold your knees. Place your feet on the mat and have a little bit separation. Your feet is at the edge of the mat. Knees apart, feet apart. And place your palms on your abdomen area and breathe normally here. Here we will focus only on our exhalation and we will focus on our abdomen area. You can inhale freely attention on your abdomen. Slow and gentle exhalation. As you exhale slowly pull in your abdomen area. Inhale freely. Let the inhalation happen automatically. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Now exhale only 4 seconds. Exhale. 1 2 3 4. Inhale freely. Pause. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale 6 seconds. 1 2 3 4 5 6 Inhale freely. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale 6 seconds again. 1 2 3 4 5 6. Inhale freely. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale 4 seconds. 1 2 3 4. Inhale freely. Breathe normally here. Now slowly you can stretch your legs forward. Have your legs apart, arms apart. Here we will do a quick relaxation. Slowly bring attention to your toes. You can wiggle your toes and relax them. Now imagine a healing energy from the mother earth entering into your toes, feet and ankles, relaxing them. Let that energy move up relaxing your calf muscles, knees, thighs, hips. Your legs are completely relaxed. Bring attention to your lower back, your upper back, the entire back completely relaxed. Bring attention to your abdomen area. Relax your abdomen area. Bring attention to your chest. Relax your chest. Bring attention to your shoulders. Let all the tensions melt away from your shoulders. Bring attention to your upper arms, lower arms, all the way up to your fingertips. [snorts] Your arms completely relaxed. Bring attention to your neck. Relax your neck. Bring attention to your face. Relax all your facial muscles from top of your head to the toes. The entire body completely relaxed. Slowly bring attention to your heart. Feel the love and light radiating from your heart. Stay here for a few breath. Now slowly bring your attention back to your body. You can wiggle your toes, your fingers. Keep your eyes closed and slowly turn into any one side. Whichever side you feel like to turn keeping eyes closed. Now with the help of your arms come to a seated posture. Make sure eyes are closed and observe yourself. Observe your body. Observe your breath and your thoughts. Now slowly bring attention to your heart and have a suggestion. The source of the divine light already present in your heart and you are attracted within. With the suggestion, we