One world, one health. But uh what does health have to do with yoga? Yoga was not made for health. Yoga was a practice was primarily for self-realization. What does it have to do with health? If you are not healthy, we cannot look inside. And the whole idea about self-realization is you need to be able to look at the self. You see around you a lot of them who are not in good health and sometimes it is us right. When we are not in good health, are we relaxed enough to sit back and reflect? We're continuously finding faults in ourselves and in everybody around. A good health is necessary for one to be able to stay relaxed and relaxation is very much necessary for one to understand oneself. If you're continuously agitated, there's no way that you can understand your actions completely, your thoughts completely. This is self-realization. What you're doing, what you're thinking, there are many other layers to it, but in a very broad sense, isn't this what it is? So when you're consumed by something, your excitement takes over and you will end up only understanding one side of whatever you are excited with and your own side because it's a tunnel vision, right? It's a very small vision. To understand everything, you need to stay in a state of relaxation. When can your body be relaxed? When can your mind be relaxed? When can your breath be relaxed? When you can connect with it? When you can become one with it? You are in sync with it. Let's say I'm sitting and talking to you. I'm continuously tapping my fingers like this. This is all fully relaxed. But I'm continuously tapping my fingers. How do you feel? Slightly agitated. If it is agitated, it can only see a very small part of reality. And not only that, when it is agitated, it sees the very small part of reality and it thinks that is the reality and gets obsessed with it. Story of our lives. Kushi is like that. Kumar. Kumar is I know him. What do I know about Kumar? I only know that he comes to class here and he pretends to be a nice person. He's always smiling. But I don't know what Omar is completely. But I get obsessed with the idea of who Omar is. I cannot see him any any other way. Your health is so important like this. If you are not healthy, you cannot relax. If you can't relax, you will constantly have problem with yourself and the whole world. That's a problem, right? And this is a habit for me. Today it is Kumar, tomorrow it's Kushi. Tomorrow, day after it's V. I have ideas about everybody. I become obsessed. It's very difficult to stop an obsession. Do you see somebody very relaxed and still be so much in obsession with something when you're so relaxed even with the object that you're obsessed with? You let it be. Look at all your landscape meditations, right? You went to a mountain, you went to the sea, you were seeing the sunset. What happens to you? You automatically feel like sitting and there just spending some time like what are you doing? Are you looking like this? Your eyes become so poppy eyed. You're breathing well. That's why you like it. Nature has the effect. Otherwise it is this this life become like this everything is tal there's only one seen pushi there's only Kushi there's nobody else how does physical body health contribute to this if you're feeling acidity have acidity is that how you back pain. Wow, my back is hurting. Wow, the shoulder is really hurting. So relaxed. You see you start getting irritated with everything. Everything starts troubling you breathing, right? How is breathing happening from the time that you took your first breath? Right? What really happened? The pressure, right? Outside pressure to inside pressure. So, wherever there is excess, what happens? It'll flow to where there is none. What happens if all of us create excess? The places it has to flow somewhere. It will flow to Sudan. It will flow to Israel. It will flow to Palestine. It will flow to Iran. It will flow to Ukraine, Russia because we have everything you know we are not involved. So if we create more the excess of it will flow to where it is required. You can and for this you need to be able to create more energy in whatever way. There was an interview with Sudam Morti in that Sudam Morti said when he joined the Tata when she joined the Tata Institute and when she left the institute because and uh Tata said asked what are you doing? Uh she said uh my husband is starting an adventure and starting in a very small this one an adventure called Infosys and I don't know I think I need to be a part of that adventure. Then Tata says okay that is very good. You know you will create a lot of money when you start something like this. But remember when you create a lot of money it is not your money. It is people's money. You are just a trustee. Make sure you give it back to people. Fend you don't have to be yoga teachers. You don't have to be a health fitness coach to create this energy in your own fields. You excel and for that maintain good health in all ways good mental health, good physical health and excel in the place that you are and help people excel. You're automatically because all of you right if I ask you what is your dream then you will say in some way or the other at some point you will end up saying I want to do world a good service. So start from here be a lender not a borrower because we have limited energy. If Kumar went to his home not like this very happy smiling but every day he went to his home sad and this and that nothing is working nothing is happening imagine his house how it will be it'll be a graveyard everybody will be like oh he came irritating people they will all be irritated and health is going down emotional health and therefore physical health is going down completely. A good physical, emotional, mental, physiological health, good body, good functioning is very important to create a world of no differences. Okay? You see that you know there's a lot of problem because there are differences. I am a Jew. I am a Muslim. I am a Hindu. I am or you know I am right I'm this side of the border that side of the border there are many words they cause too much ego too much mind too much I too much mind so if these starts breaking because strong people cannot help but help others they don't take anything from others And if this becomes a collective consciousness, collective effort from everybody taking should not be very uh I take something out of yours. Something as simple as Kumar not dealing with his own issues and walking into home and making everybody else a part of that. dealing with your own stuff, not making excuses and blaming others for what you're going through. These keeps us away from creating I will call it wealth, right? Creating wealth because good health is already wealth created. more we all create there is everything in excess and there are naturally right as a world there are naturally people who can't do that by themselves who's not capable who are put in very bad places so your energy moves them by something that you create like a you might become a software engineer at the software that you create towards the wellbeing of others A school that you open towards the wellbeing of others, a philanthropic foundation that you open towards the wellbeing of others. You need energy to do all of this, right? Every day is work. If I finish that is only okay. I do all of this. Why? Where does it come from? Our understanding of health by itself. It is not the surface level health that we're talking about. If you are healthy, if you can work with yourself, you will create a lot of wealth and that wealth invariably flows. And to let it flow also to places where it has to go, you need health. Otherwise, you may create wealth. My son, my daughter, my grandson, my granddaughter, their grandson, their granddaughter. But you see it is all health and as you hold your health deteriorates and to have that idea of holding so much you need to have a deteriorated mind because you know in a with a healthy mind you know things have to flow. Everybody has to get access to who is healthy. Holding on to a lot whatever it may be. Holding on to knowledge. Holding on to this one. It is to be shared. It is to be moved. Health can create one world. A world without differences. A world where everybody is accepting each other is like this. I I hear a lot of people saying there's so much happening in Israel. There's so much happening in Iran. I'm not able to do anything. Just turn up on your mat practice and in the end of the practice find the way to create that kind of energy, right? And in the end of the class, just give away everything.