[Music] Namaskar. A warm welcome to all of you and those who are joining us online and especially those who are joining for the first time. We deeply appreciate your decision to take time out of your busy lives and to invest it on your spiritual well-being and happiness. It is a great joy today to celebrate with you the International Day of Yoga 2024. What better way, what more befitting way to honor this special event than to start practicing the principles of yoga and start feeling the benefits of yoga meditation. I am Swami Lelanandiri speaking to you from the Noa Asham of Yogada Satsanga Society of India. YSS a spiritual and charitable society founded by Pararmahansa Yogananda. Before we start our guided meditation, let us watch a brief introductory video on Paramahansa Yogaandanda and YSS. Welcome to this brief introduction about Yogada Sassanga Society of India and its founder Paramahamsa Yogananda. Yogada Satsanga Society of India YSS was founded in 1917 to make available to all the universal teachings of ka yoga meditation. It is Mouavatar Babaaji the deathless avatar who revived in this age the lost scientific meditation technique of crea yoga. In bestowing crea yoga initiation on his disciple Lahiri Mahashaya Babuaji said the cre yoga that I'm giving to the world through you in this 19th century is a revival of the same signs that Krishna gave millenniums ago to Arjuna and that was later known to Patanjali and Christ. Swami Shri Yukteshwar GI was a disciple of Lahiri Mahashaya and guru of Parahansa Yogananda. Yogaandanda G came to him as a youth and under his training and discipline was prepared to make the ancient science of Ker Yoga available to seekers around the world. Yogaandanda gi began his work with the founding of a how to live school for boys and ashram in Ranchi where modern education methods were combined with yoga meditation. In August 1920, Yoganand gi sailed to Boston, USA where he was invited to serve as India's delegate at the International Congress of Religious Liberals. That same year he founded self-realization fellowship in America to disseminate his teachings of cray yoga worldwide. Shortly before yoga gi left for America, Babai visited him and told him, "You are the one I've chosen to spread the message of kria yoga in the west." Today yoga satsanga society of India has four ashrams and more than 200 centers in India and surrounding countries. Self-realization fellowship our sister organization in the west serves devotees across 175 countries and has more than 500 centers. We recently celebrated the 75th anniversary of the publication of autobiography of yogi, one of the world's most acclaimed spiritual classics. As a life story of Paramahansa Yogaandanda, this book touched the hearts and minds of millions around the globe. Translated into over 50 languages, it has served as an ambassador of India's ancient science of yoga, introducing countless readers to the methods of attaining God realization. There are India's unique and lasting contribution to world civilization. It has inspired millions across the world including many sports persons, visionaries, actors and so on. Virat Kohli said, "I love this book. A must-read for all those who are brave enough to let their thoughts and ideologies be challenged. A life with love, warmth, joy and wisdom. This masterpiece includes chapters about the science of cre yoga, the law of miracles, yogaandh's meetings with Mahatma Gandhi, Rabbindran Toor, Ramana Marishi, India's great scientist JC Bose and many other luminaries of the east and west. Government of India has paid tribute to Yoga Nandanda Gi and his work on various occasions. In 1977, a stamp was released on the 25th anniversary of his Mahas samadi. In 2017, the prime minister of India released a postage stamp commemorating the 100th anniversary of Yogada Satsanga Society of India. In 2019, a special rupees 125 commemorative coin was released to mark the 125th birth anniversary of yogaandanda g. The wisest online bookstore offers writings and recordings from the wisdom legacy of Parahamsa Yogaandanda in different formats. His audio talks are available as digital downloads. The YSS online dyan kendra allows devotees and friends from India and around the world the opportunity to participate from the comfort of their homes in group meditations and listen to the inspirational talks by YSSI. Our online events are conducted in English, Hindi and other Indian languages. Pararmahamsi Yogaandanda taught a system of meditation techniques as part of the science of Kria yoga. These techniques are available through the YSS lessons, a home study program. The lessons also offer a wealth of practical guidance for spiritual living for all round well-being and success and how to live joyfully amidst the unseasing challenges of modernday living. These lessons can be read in printed form and can also be assessed through a digital app. You can subscribe for these lessons online through vissofindia.org/lessons. To request application by post, call or email our help desk. Information about YSS and the YSS lessons is available on our website. Thank you. Hope you enjoyed the introduction. Different people are drawn to yoga for different reasons. Some simply to feel better. Some in pursuit of good health but the benefits of yoga far extent physical well-being. I would like to share with you our experience with visitors who come to our ashams and express their interest in yoga meditation. We ask them what has drawn you here? Why are you here? Why do you want to learn yoga meditation? Why do you want to meditate consistently though in different words through different expressions they echo a shared sentiment. They say I want to experience deeper calmness or I want to become more centered within or I want to be more aware or I want to live more consciously and happily. But then some express their longing to get in tune with their own hearts and with their own souls. They say, "I want to know who I truly am." And then they ask can yoga meditation help me with this. That's when we smile and say yes definitely yes because it has helped us to move in that direction. It is a gradual process but it certainly helps us. I would like to share with you a few words about the techniques. The yogis of ancient India developed techniques for mastering the mind and also to reverse the flow of life force which normally goes out through the senses and inwardly direct it to the higher centers of consciousness in the spine. mind and brain. This enabled them, these yogic practices enabled them to access deeper levels of consciousness which ultimately led them to the experience the profound experience of selfreization. And if you also know how to interiorize yourselves, how to go within using tried and tested scientific techniques, you shall also be able to access deeper and higher levels of consciousness. We are going to learn and practice some of these techniques given by Parahansa Yogaandanda Gi. What are the factors for proficiency in meditation? Today we will be focusing on some key aspects of meditation. Just like mastering any other skill, we need to learn the correct methods and follow them, practice them regularly. So meditation is not complicated. It is simple. The two things that we need to do is the same as what is needed for mastering any other skill knowing the correct methods and then following them practicing them regularly. So in today's workshop we will be seeing four aspects of yoga meditation. Number one, correct posture. Then preliminary breathing exercises, guided meditation and affirmation. And the purpose of this workshop would be to learn and practice these aspects of yoga and to feel the positive benefits by doing this. And you may continue the practice of these aspects at home if you wish. A few words about those who continue practice. Those who go home and continue these practices often seek to delve deeper. They want to explore advanced yoga techniques which will give them a more profound experience of peace and joy. This brings us to the yoga lessons. Pararmahansa Yogaandanda G's yoga lessons contain such scientific yoga meditation techniques. If you are interested in these lessons from one of the greatest yogis of modern times and wish to learn more about them, you will get more information at the end of this session. So coming back to the guided meditation and to the first aspect right posture it is very important to sit in the correct meditation posture. Parmahansuji says if you have assumed the correct posture your body will be stable yet relaxed so that it is possible to remain completely still without moving a muscle. Such stillness devoid of restless body movements and adjustments is essential to the attainment of a deep meditative state that expresses the importance of correct posture. Now we will learn the correct posture and do your best to follow the instructions that Parahans GI gives for assuming the right yogic posture. The first and foremost essential item essential point in assuming the correct posture is a straight spine. The spine should be straight and the chin should be parallel to the ground. That means the head should not be tilted down or tilted back. The chin should be parallel to the ground. Then the hands are placed at the juncture of the thighs and abdomen. Palms are facing up and the hands are placed at the juncture of the thighs and abdomen. Then the shoulders are gently pulled back without any strain. So the chest comes out a little bit and abdomen gets drawn in. So this is the correct yogic posture for meditation. Now in case you are sitting on a chair, you should not lean back on the chair. There should be a gap between the chair and your back and the feet should be flat on the floor. Now in this position we are going to a very important part which is we have to try to fix our eyes at the point between the eyebrows. This point is a seat of concentration and willpower and also the seat of superconscious perception. So what we should do is we try to fix the eyes at the point between the eyebrows and if it is difficult we can simply gently lift the eyes up and look up. However, don't strain your eyes or cross your eyes. Simply gently lift it up and keep it there. Now let us assume this posture. Let us sit straight. Spine straight. Chin parallel to ground. Hands palm facing up. placed at the juncture of the thighs and abdomen. Shoulders gently pulled back. Chest out, abdomen in eyes are lifted to the kas the point between the eyebrows. Do not lean back on the chair and leave a small gap between the chair and the back. Let us assume this posture and attain a stability and steadiness of the physical body. Now try to relax the entire body in this posture and the mind also. Feel the body consciously relaxing and try to throw out of the mind all cares and concerns and make it relaxed. So let us stay in this pose for a few moments enjoying the steadiness and stillness of the body. Okay. Now after this we come to another important point which is relaxation. As important as posture is relaxation. For this we are going to learn and practice a preliminary breathing exercise. As I said the purpose is to relax body and mind. And what we are doing here is combining tension and relaxation with breathing. Energy gets knotted up all over the body due to various reasons making us tense or tired or unable to let go you know unable to relax. This breathing exercise is an excellent solution for untying the knots of energy which has collected all over the body. So let me first describe to you. Let us learn it first and then we will do it together afterwards. The first step is to exhale the breath through the mouth in a double exhalation. Double exhalation means one short and one long breath through the mouth like this. This is what is called double exhalation. And once the lungs are empty, we draw in the breath through the nose. At the same time, we are clenching the fists and bringing the whole body under tension. we are tensing the whole body. So we are filling the lungs with the air at the same time tensing the whole body. Once the inhalation is complete we are holding the tension as well as the breath for a count of six. After that we are expelling the breath through the mouth with a double exhalation and relaxing the whole body. This we will do three times. Okay. Let us start. Let us all do it together. Sit in the meditation posture. Spine straight. And now expel the breath in a double exhalation. Okay, start breathing while tensing the whole body, clenching the fists. Okay, hold the breath and tension. 1 2 3 4 5 6 and expel with through the mouth. Let us do it again. Inhale. Hold 1 2 3 4 5 6 Exhale. Relax again. Inhale. Tense. 1 2 3 4 5 6. Exhale. Let us sit for a while enjoying the relaxation of body and mind. Okay, now we come to the next part which is prayer. We will now offer a prayer to God for his blessings on our efforts to meditate. Parahams gi asked us to think of God as the nearest of the near dearest of the dear as father, mother, friend, beloved who is eager to respond to our calls. So let us now all of us together come to the position of the hands while we pray which is you are all most of you are familiar with it. Join the hands in front of you reverently before we offer a prayer. Now please close your eyes and visualize divine light or any other aspect of God and or your favorite image of God at the center of the eyebrows in an attitude of deep reverence. Let us now offer a prayer to God for success in our meditations. I will call out the prayer and you can repeat after me. Heavenly Father, Heavenly Father, Mother, Mother, Friend, Friend, Beloved God, Beloved God. Saints of all religions, saints of all religions, we bow to you all. Beloved God, Beloved God, lead us. Lead us from darkness to light. From darkness to light. From ignorance to wisdom. From ignorance to wisdom. And from restlessness to peace. Om shanti shanti shanti shanti shanti shanti now that we have invoked god's blessings on our meditation we have come to the second preliminary breathing exercise it is as important as posture and relaxation to be wide awake and alert in meditation. This preliminary exercise will help us to do that. It is called 2020 2020 breathing. It oxygenates our system and decarbonizes the body which keeps us wide awake during meditation. Now let us learn this breathing exercise and then we will practice it together. First we inhale through the nose to a count of 20. Hold the breath inside the lungs to a count of 20 and exhale the breath to a count of 20. And immediately we start inhaling which means we don't hold the breath outside. So the inhalation is 20, holding is 20, exhalation is 20 counts. These counts when we say counting it is at the rate of two counts per second. So as you can see the ratio of inhalation, holding and exhalation is 1 is to 1 is to1. Now many people may find it difficult to inhale so long to a count of 20. But it doesn't matter. You can reduce the count to 15 or 12 or 10. But if you are inhaling for a count of 10, then holding should be also for a count of 10 and exhalation should also be a count of 10. Now we will practice this together six times. The first three times I will guide you with the counting. We will use a count of 10 only for the comfort of everyone. But after the three repetitions are over then you yourself mentally count and practice it for three more times and then we will go into the guided meditation. So before we start practicing again let us sit in the posture spine straight eyes at the point between the eyebrows. Hands placed at the juncture of the thighs and abdomen. Shoulder pulled back. Abdomen in. Chest out. Body relaxed. Now I will count and you start inhaling. Inhale. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Hold. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Exhale. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Now again inhale. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Hold. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Exhale. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Again, inhale. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Hold. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Exhale. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Please continue this by yourselves. I will also do it by myself. One important point which I forgot to mention is that we have to exhale through the mouth not the nose. It is the exhalation is through the mouth and not the nose. So I would suggest that we start again. So please inhale. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Hold. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. And through the mouth. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Inhale. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Hold. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Exhale through the mouth. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Again, inhale. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Hold. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Exhale through the mouth. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Okay, let us do it by ourselves. Inhale. Now we will flow into the guided meditation. Keep the eyes closed and fixed at the point between the eyebrows. Now forget about your breath. Let it flow naturally in and out on it of its own accord. Now mentally feel the body and talk to it and say relax. Tell the body to relax and feel the relaxation. Again tell the body relax and feel the body relaxing deeper. Again tell the body to relax and feel the body relax. Now tell the mind to relax to let go of all cares and worries. Tell the mind to relax and let go of all worldly cares and worries. Again tell the mind to relax and let go of all cares and worries. Now let us enjoy the peace for a couple of minutes. And this peace Guruji says peace is the proof first proof of God's presence within. If any thoughts come, let it go. Come and let it go. Pass off. Focus the attention on that piece. Try to see that the eyes are in the correct position as far as possible. Just be aware of this piece. If the mind wanders, bring it back. Gently bring the mind back if it is wandering. Now visualize and feel the peace as I read excerpts from a selection entitled a meditation on peace by Paramahansa Yogaandanda. No need to repeat. Just listen to what I am reading and try to deepen the peace which you are feeling. Peace fills my body. Peace fills my heart and dwells within my love. Peace within, without, and everywhere. God is peace. I am his child. I am peace. God and I are one. Peace fills my body. Peace fills my heart. and dwells within my love. Peace within, without, everywhere. God is peace. I am his child. I am peace. God and I are one. Peace fills my body. Peace fills my heart and dwells within my love. Peace within, without, everywhere. God is peace. I am his child. I am peace. God and I are one. God is peace. I am his child. I am peace. God and I are one. God is peace. I am his child. I am peace. God and I are one. Please mentally repeat this for a while and try to go deep into the ocean of peace. Now you may Open your eyes. Now we will practice affirmation. We will practice an affirmation of karmahansa yoga gi. What are affirmations? Affirmations are statements of truth and they are repeated over and over again loudly, softly in whisper and mentally until the truth is experienced through realization. What's a good time for affirming? One good time is while sitting in the peace after meditation. Then one of Paramahansi's techniques sorry affirmations from the scientific healing affirmations becomes a technique to practice. If we are affirming in the peace, it is a technique. It is a good time to practice while we are feeling the peace as the after effect of meditation. Now we are going to use one such affirmation. I would like to give a few words about the background of this affirmation. We are all living in a sea of cosmic energy. The cosmic energy surrounds us and is all around us. In fact, we are living or moving and having our beings in that energy. This ocean of cosmic energy fills the universe. It is what is animating, vitalizing and energizing the whole cosmos. But we are not able to draw upon this energy and that's why we sometimes say I am tired, I am weary, I am exhausted and so on. But if we learn to draw upon this energy, we can quickly recharge ourselves and we can even if we make it a habit, we can live a very energetic, fuller, a richer life. How to do this is to remind ourselves to affirm this truth and visualize it. We have to keep reminding ourselves about this energy which is all around us. We have to affirm the truth that it is there and we have to visualize it. This is one way of drawing the energy into our body. So Guruji's affirmation which we are going to use does this. It actually makes us remind us about this energy and we are affirming this truth and visualizing it. Not only that this a but through this affirmation we are spiritualizing every cell of our body to be filled with light to be filled with vitality and exuberance. We will practice this affirmation first loudly then softly then in whispers and finally mentally. So I will just read out the affirmation now to familiarize you with it. Afterwards we will practice together. The sub the affirmation goes like this. I am submerged in eternal light. It permeates every particle of my being. I am living in that light. The divine spirit fills me within and without. So we will now sit in the meditation posture and then I will call out first loudly. You will repeat after me after that softly and then in whispers and you will continue for a while mentally. So let us sit in the meditation posture. And please repeat after me. I am submerged in eternal light. I am submerged. It permeates every particle of my being. I am living in that light. I am living in that. The divine spirit fills me within and without. My I am submerged in eternal light. I am submerged in eternal light. It permeates every particle of my being. Every particle of my being. I am living in that light. I am living. The divine spirit fills me within and without. The divine spirit fills me within and without. I am submerged in eternal light. I am submerged in eternal light. It permeates every particle of my being. I am living in that light. I am living. The divine spirit fills me within and without. The divine spirit fs softly I am submerged in eternal light. I am submerged in eternal light. It permeates every particle of my being. I am living in that light. I the divine spirit fills me within and without. I am submerged in eternal light. It permeates every particle of my being. I am living in that light. I am living in that light. The divine spirit fills me within and without. I am submerged in eternal light. It permeates every particle of my being. I am living in that light. The divine spirit fills me within and without. Whispers, I am submerged in eternal light. It permeates every particle of my being. I am living in that light. The divine spirit fills me within and without. I am submerged in eternal light. It permeates every particle of my being. I am living in that light. The divine spirit fills me within and without. I am submerged in eternal light. It permeates every particle of my being. I am living in that light. The divine spirit fills me within and without. Please continue mentally for some time. Now stop mental chanting, mental affirmation and enjoy. A moment of stillness and silence. Focusing on divine peace, joy and wisdom. Just enjoy the peace. Let the mind sink into the ocean of peace. Now we have finished with the affirmation part and the guided meditation. Please open your eyes now. If you have enjoyed these affirmations and guided meditations and are also interested in learning the more sublime yoga techniques of meditation, you may explore our website yss ofindia.org. You will see Father, father, mother, mother, friend, beloved God, God, saints of all religions, saints of all religions, we bow to you all. Bow to you all. Divine mother, divine mother, from joy I have come. Joy, in joy I live. In joy I live, move, move, and have my being. And in that sacred joy, And joy, I will melt again. I will. Om Shanti, Shanti, Shanti, Shanti, Shanti, Shanti. We hope you have enjoyed the program. Thanks to all who are here and who are joining us online for participating. Namaskar.