Good evening and welcome everyone. Thank you so much for being here. It's very special when we can come together in a forum other than a class in our yoga shorts and t-shirts and celebrate our community. Um it's a privilege to host tonight and I really thank you for coming along. Tonight we have the children from the children's class who are going to put on the story of Sage Yagya. After that we will be quizzing you for a chance to win some prizes, some questions that I'm sure you know the answer to because you've been coming to yoga class. And after that we'll be talking to some students that attend classes here. And whilst there's a formality in the air, I really hope that tonight is a a fair where if you have something you want to say or ask a question that you don't feel that you can't. So please raise your hand if there's something you'd like to share. So it's more of a gathering rather than a show. But let's begin with our story of Yagna. Now we just have to get the microphones on the children and then we'll start. Sage Yagya was accomplished or respected student but he makes a mistake. And tonight is the story of his mistake and what happens when he makes that mistake on the spiritual path. The videos we'll be seeing are some clips from the institute. I think when you come to classes here you hear these words the institute Huna the medical class. So that will be our theme for tonight sharing with you what is the institute showing you on screen the institute. It is the actual headquarters of Ayena Yoga where the Ayena family both live and teach in the same compound. They have their family home and then they have the yoga school in a separate building but with um only this much space between the two buildings. The medical class in Kuna is where when someone has an ailment, an illness, a health condition, they can go and they can practice yoga. >> Here we don't call it the medical class, we call it specific needs. And so it's very similar to what you'll see here when we we see the videos of the medical class. Who is Guruji? Guruji BK Ksa who brought us the teachings in this form. So over different ages and time cultures change, language changes and so teaching also has to be transmitted in a way that it can be received. So whilst Guruji created something special, unique you could say in how he packaged, I don't know if packaged is the right word, but how he constructed a system for us to learn. Whilst it's quite unique, what he didn't do was reject any of the principles and values of the yoga teaching. And it's considered that that is what has to happen as time flows so that the teaching stays alive. So as a student what becomes quite important is to always look at the bigger perspective not to drill down so much on the little details and say oh this is like this here it's like that there. What's most important is the underlying principles are being followed and transmitted. So Guruji's system includes props. That's so the teaching can be transmitted to a society where we don't have a lot of time to devote on getting our body limber and able to feel the benefits. But with the prop, even someone who's spending one or two hours a week can get a a strong dose of benefit from the poses. Now, let's see if the children are ready. Are you ready? Will be our narrator for tonight. Our story begins in sage which are people of sage special. Wow. Stay with me. Sage will send purifying water to the king. Let's check three times here. Whenia arrived at the palace, the king was busy with worldly affairs and ignored her. That's what I think from the dry wood trees. small piece of dried wood. So many trees and figuring have sprouted. I think I made an error. I need to bring the back. I apologize. You want to apologize for taught that you know about my tree and my tree is friendship is compassion is being joyful. and not seeking revenge >> attitude should be if it weren't for the grace of God I might also be with that change >> let's repeat that with the money. >> In that case, you don't deserve the most spiritually evolved. Your attitude should be if it weren't for the grace of God, I might also be like that king. >> No, I'm still not going back to that. Him, right? In that case, you don't deserve the knowledge. I command that you retain all the knowledge that you have. Guru had no other choice. >> The other students see that value of that and do not want to leave it lying on the ground. So they took the form of birds to scoop it up. We have the eagle here. >> We have the crane and the crow. >> Someone who wanted to be a lifelong learner. Although we no longer had a good teacher. They have the good microphone. >> Every morning someone who wanted to be a lifelong learner, but when he no longer had a human teacher, look to the sun for learning. Every morning he is called So in the story, um spits out all the knowledge and the students at the school recognizing the value of that knowledge become part birds and eat up that knowledge because knowledge is considered the highest in life. One must uh um aspire to acquire knowledge. Later he did penance. He didn't have a teacher because he rejected the um instruction of the teacher. But he looked to nature for learning and that's the sun. and the children will show the sun's futations. Later he came to write a very important text. It's called the uh white yajua. Some of you will know the sha yajuna. the white and what they say was particularly relevant about Yagna as a student is he didn't just understand the knowledge mentally but he he he experienced emotionally he understood what was behind the teaching and that's what Guruji always wanted us as well to be as students not sort of like dry academic students who looked at the text and merely memorize the words but he wanted us to understand them and guru is teaching the way to understand is through experience and you see you know when you do the poses you're having experience in that moment and it's about how you culture your practice to give you the experiences, the imprints that are going to change how you think, how you feel, how you see the world. In um I like to read a lot about how the brain works. Um, in neuroscience they say the brain loves a non-negotiable goal. So what's easiest for the brain is just to have these fixed notions. This is how it should be. This is what I like to eat. This is my this is the right way. But the point of doing your yoga practice is to always challenge your brain. And you do that by experiencing the poses. It's because then you can really see your responses and your reactions. Like you can be at home reading a book and read something and you can think, "Yeah, I agree with it or I don't agree with it." But it's only when you have to experience some discomfort or something fearful or you have to experience disappointment of not getting a posture when everyone else is getting a posture. That's when you really have to face those imprints in the mind or when you get sick and you could do a pose and now you can't do a pose and you're starting to age and you could do the poses when you were younger and now you can't do the poses. So you only face that by jumping into the pool of yoga. Okay. Now let us salute the sun. [Music] What about children. That was an enthralling performance from all of you and we wish we could do the poses as well as you all do. >> Thank you.