Namaste everyone. Namaste pranam and a very warm welcome to one and all. And it's a matter of great joy and pride to welcome you all to this yoga bundan a soulful event in the series of international day of yoga 2025 programs supported by ministry of Aush and inter Indian yoga association. As we celebrate the spirit of yoga across the globe, today's theme secrets of yoga therapy invites us to explore the deeper healing powers of yoga beyond asa and pranayam that we see normally in day-to-day life in our surrounding. Yoga therapy is not just a set of practices. It is a powerful holistic humanistic approach towards health that nurtures the body, calms the mind and uplifts the soul. Rooted in ancient Indian wisdom, it offers integrative solutions for modernday stress, chronic conditions, emotional imbalances and guiding us towards complete well-being and leading towards a spiritual healthy lifestyle. So we again welcome you all for joining the event. So without any further delay, let us unfold these secrets together and with awareness, curiosity and gratitude, let invoke uh the guru Gayatri. Join your palms together. Oh yoga mahi Dr. Swami Guru Maharaji yogihani guru makom hurry. Oh, so thank you all. Now it's my honor and deep joy to welcome a living bridge between the ancient yogic wisdom and modern health science. Our dearest Dr. Anandhab Balogi Bhavanisa whose life itself is a living example of yoga in action. And now what we are calling him as the Ananda intelligence. We give him some inputs and we got get a lot of understanding and today we are going to unveil the secrets of yoga therapy. So he is the spiritual hair of the classical rishianga yoga the gita yoga which was expounded by the worldrenowned yoga mashi Dr. Swami Ganand Giri G and nurtured by yoga chari Minakshi Dvi Bhavnani G. Dr. Anandasar is a medical doctor, yoga therapist, researcher and cultural ambassador who carries forward this legacy through his global teaching, clinical work and deep spiritual insight. His contribution blend ancient wisdom with modern therapeutic applications making him a guiding light in the world of yoga therapy and helping many people like us. Please join me in welcoming yoga Dr. Anand Balogi Bhavani G to share his profound insights on the secrets of yoga therapy. Welcome you sir. Namastead Nilachal and thank you very much for putting together this very beautiful yoga bandan. The yoga bundan is a signature event of the ministry of aayush government of India and part of the 10 signature events that were conceptualized for the 11th international day of yoga 2025. I am truly u privileged that the ministry had asked us to conduct these programs and this is the fifth and final of our series of yoga bundan from ISCM of SBV and the IYA the Indian Yoga Association. Today's topic is very special and we have with us an amazing lineup moderated and conceptualized by my dear Nilachal. We have with us yoga who is spearheading the yoga chikitsa movement in the UK and Portugal as part of his taking forward the living tradition of ganandanda yoga and the sanatan. We have with us Kamala Pilgrim from Canada who integrates the concepts of yoga, yoga therapy into her psychology practice. We have with us Karen all the way from Brazil who has trained with my beloved yoga Ananta and now continues taking forward the Ganandanda teachings in so many ways. We have with us my dear Don Browning who again is a graduate of yoga Ananta G's integrative yoga therapy program and taking forward these teachings. I would like to specially welcome yoga Ananta G who's with us and a very beloved dear friend brother of mine who enabled me to take my teachings to North America through his integrative yoga therapy program and very special to have him bat G Mandi G uh Dr. Ina with us. We have so many of you from different parts of the world. And this is what yoga bandan is all about. Bringing together all of us as a family. One earth, one health was the slogan for this year's yoga day. And yoga is the glue that holds us all together. This event looks at yoga chikitsa the application of yoga as a therapy. And when we talk about yoga as a therapy, it is vital to understand what is the purpose behind the application of yoga as a therapy. It is not just to fix things or fix people or fix problems. Which is why yoga chikitsa is not just a quick fix for every problem that we have. Again, yoga chikitsa yoga therapy doesn't believe in one pill for one ill or one sizefits all because yoga chikitsa approaches the human being. This is the celtogenic orientation of antonowski which is the swastia approach of Indian healing traditions where the person is at the center of our therapeutic process and not the disease. So I think the fundamental secret of yoga therapy which is the title of today is that it is not disease oriented but it is person centered. The second secret it is not outcome oriented it is process oriented. So yoga as a therapy and yoga chikita is the appropriate term is process oriented personentric and is celtogenic in orientation. It shares a lot of commonalities with some beautiful concepts that I have got to love over many decades. The first concept is one that was postulated and brought out well by my dear Albert Einstein who said science and religion I paraphrase it science and spirituality are two eyes and science without religion as he put it is lame. him religion without science is blind and you need both. So I think one of the first and foremost concepts that I would like to share today is it is not science or spirituality but it is science and spirituality. So this is a very important point to keep in mind. Science and spirituality. There's no dichotomy. There's no division. When I look through one eye, I have one perspective. When I look through the other eye, I have another perspective. When I look through both, I create a new dimension. That holistic dimension is the dimension adopted by yoga as a therapy. Yoga chikita. It is not reductionist. It is inclusive. Modern science, modern medicine often reduces the person to organs, systems and today we go all the way down into the molecular mechanics and dimensions of health and disease. So it is very microscopic. It is constantly looking at the small picture and magnifying the small picture so you can understand the small picture better more and look at it in greater detail. The yoga dishi is taking the opposite perspective the contrary perspective. It says you are not just your cells. You are not just your organs or your organ systems. You are not just this physical body but you are a body that functions. You have a body that is functional and capacity for psychological dimensions. More than that as a human being you are endowed with the power of choice and then no man well no woman no person is an island. We are all interconnected. Which is why one earth one health understands that it is not just human health that we need to focus on but health of the entire planet and every being that exists on this blue planet. Yoga chikita tries to understand what is at the root of our duka, our suffering. That root cause analysis I think is best provided by the yogic philosophy, the yogic psychology and the yogic spirituality. Swami Ganandhagi my beloved father and guru he would say the first disease is the disease of duality where you feel different than the universe in which you exist. The moment you feel separate from the universe in which you exist, duka has started. Because separation creates duality, duality creates friction. Friction creates heat. Heat creates its own suffering. And the whole downward spiral of the humankind begins with separation. When we talk of yoga, our Vedas, our opishads give us so much of food for thought. The brahavanyaka, the largest, most expansive says from duality comes fear. From separation comes fear. And once fear comes, all your survival mechanisms, the stress mechanisms come into play. And once they come into play, congratulations. Duka will manifest sooner than later in greater and greater magnitude. The yogic philosophy, the yogic psychology and spirituality says, we are human beings. But at the same time, we have forgotten our divinity. We are individuals who have forgotten our universality. And this is why to paraphrase Mahavishi Patanjali, we are the divine suffering temporary amnesia. We are the divine suffering temporary amnesia and we have forgotten we are the divine. We are the universe. We think we are the drop. We have forgotten we are the ocean. Why? Because of the clatas, the clias which Mahavishi Patanjali postulates are at the root of all human suffering and any root cause analysis in yoga chikitsa must and I'm going to underline that with green, blue, pink, whatever highlights you like. Every root cause analysis in yoga chikitsa must include the clasia model of maharavish patanjali. It is the best model to understand human suffering duka. Why do we have duka? Because we have forgotten who we are. What is that called? Avidya. Because of aidya we have forgotten who we are. Remember we are the divine, we are the universe, we are we have forgotten it. We now create an artificial identity called asmita. This artificially created identity has likes and dislikes raata and wants to survive at any cost. Ainvesa. This is the greatest model of human suffering. Now helping somebody stretch their gastro nimus muscle, helping someone stretch the hamstrings, helping them open the shoulders is all good. But is it looking at the root cause? The root cause is avidya. The root cause of all the suffering the karmabased suffering duka is the cla. Patanjali again says because of the clas at the root the karma manifests and karma manifests as the duka. So the biggest secret of all yoga therapy is until and unless you address the root cause aidya that aidya you will not find a permanent solution to the suffering of humanity. We can help the person physically to feel better which is good. We can help them to have a tranquility psychologically which is also good. We can enhance the emotional intelligence of the individual which is great. We can reduce the stress which will enable psychosomatic harmony. We can enhance the functionality physically, mentally, socially, emotionally, financially, spiritually. All of that is great. But that seed of all suffering avidya still remains. And that is why as a yoga therapist I think along with quick fixes along with a few bandages here and there I think most importantly we must enable that individual who seeking care the care seeker to move from where they are to where they can be as Abraham Maslo says what we can be we must be and what we can be is not just you know positionality academics financial stability it is the highest ishwara itself so with that call for a greater perspective of yoga chikitsa I'm looking forward to listening to all our panelists today and thank you everyone for joining us uh the more we come together the more we share together. The more we learn together, the more we can grow and glow together in yoga. Thank you so much sir for these insights and every time when we listen you we have a better and broader perspective on something new we come to learn and how you mentioned the scientific spirituality aspect that is the most uh needed concept that in the modern era and especially in the field of yoga chikatsa so we need here to have a holistic healing and inner balance thank you so much sir And with that I'd like to again welcome all the panelist uh in today's program um where the we are going to discuss the yogitsa in the context of ganandanda yoga tradition and we are really blessed to have uh these panelists from different disciplines and corners of the world all rooted in this divine Gita yoga tradition and in the upcoming time And the upcoming uh the discussion we will be having a better uh perspective on the yoga chikitsa from the research culture stanga yoga tradition and let us intro uh we will go in a sequence where we will be having introducing one of the panelist and then we'll ask a basic question then we'll go on like that. I first of all I would like to welcome uh introduce yoga ganadeviri. Uh he is our it is our great honor to welcome Ganadev Yogar Gandviri a devoted teacher author and founder of sanatana yoga gurukul and yoga satasang ashram UK. He is a senior practitioner of the culture ashtanga yoga traditional. Uh he has dedicated his life to preserving and sharing the authentic roots of sanatana dharma and classical yoga as taught by Swami Ganandiri GI and under the guidance of Ama Gi Yogarini Minak Dvi Bhavani G and with over two decades of teaching experience and 14 authored books. uh he has uh deeply continued to spread the knowledge and wisdom of yoga across the UK, Portugal and over various parts of the world. So let us warmly welcome yoga GandV Girij as he guides us towards a deeper understanding of yoga as a holistic and sacred way of life with the kosha uh like the basic question I have for you like having lived and taught in the sanatan dharma and trained in rishi culture ashtanga yoga experienced teachings both in the bharata India and abroad how do you view uh the role of daily sad Ana, mantra or suadha and dharmic living as essential pillars of yoga chikatsa. From your experiences why is this inner alignment with the principles of sanatan dharma is vital not only for physical healing but for restoring harmony in the mind and awakening of the soul. Thank you nilansal. I think your introduction probably it's a bit too much for anyone especially for it's definitely putting quite a lot of pressure and then I don't know I also find it interesting to talk after my teacher Dr. Rananda is it can be easier if I request for future like if we talk before you then you can cover up all the mess we make if if you don't mind I'm not sure the rest of the panelist how you all feel but I think for me as if I have my teacher with me I would rather have it other way around if I be honest but yeah thank you and thank you Nilansel for that ego introduction but I guess I'm just as Amaji always say that I'm doing my best to to share my experience and the teachings or understanding of sanatan dharma and then the yoga yoga therapy and the the ganandha system of our evolutionary progress I guess you can call it in spirituality now in in in the context to yoga or the evolution and yoga from my personal experience I really don't think it matters on which part of the planet that we live in because it's not that external environment that creates the space for sadena. It's the the internal desire or that internal strength you can call it the va you can call it or even that that little seed in all of us that says I had enough of the suffering as as you know Dr. And was explaining this this root cause of the suffering the clay and especially the avidya and the way I I look at it from my Delhi perspective Delhi sadhena is you see we we suffer in the darkness of ignorance or avidya or lack of this true abundant knowledge of nonduality but the the essence is the darkness itself does not have its own existence you know if you say like can you go out and punch the darkness. Can you do something with the darkness? We we cannot fight with the dark darkness. We cannot do anything with it. But we can light a lamp. We can you know open the window. We can even as simple as open our eyes. So, so in that way we can develop some access to our cognitive awareness which is connected with the word. So this concept Dr. was sort of explaining us if I take it forward this concept of any if we replace it with the so knowing this world is the maya of manifestation but of course from the perspective of suffering we see the suffering in the world from perspective of the yoga or the yogic wisdom there is abundance there is joy there is love there is people there is amazing people everywhere you know maybe we all having good and bedtime, hard and the the blissful time. But there is the heart or the spirit within everyone is seeking for that joy, seeking for that light, seeking for that bliss. But then how do we bring that light? To me that light is sadena. Now in in our daytoday sadhena you know in in especially when we look at our holistic ganandha system you know when when I look at the yoga in our modern world you go to a school there is a hat yog there is a mantra yoga there is a bi there is a pranayyam there is philosophy there is meditation. While in kitananda yoga each one of them is inclusive as a tool we learn and and we practice them. So as nilans was asking rightfully what is the role of you know maybe the gaitri mantra chanting in the morning or maybe do some pranayyam do some hatog you know go and be with the society with the with attitude of service or or the yama nyama when we meet out with people. So actually this this wholesome concept of Ganandanda yoga and and these holistic tools they really are meaningless or or more like I one of my favorite phrase actually it comes from Swami Vanandanda he says that wisdom without the practice is just the poison it's it's toxic so as as Nilan said you were saying what's the role of the sadhena sadena is what we know the tools where that we have been blessed by our gurus, our teachers, our ancestors, bringing them in practice. And I I think when we bring those practices, those tools in life, I do remind everyone including myself this Amama's favorite mantra she keep repeating over and over again and again during six months. Do your best and leave for the rest. this nonjudgmental attitude or non-comparing, non-competing attitude that you work on yourself. You keep igniting that light, you keep igniting that prana or that that ant joti to to work through this darkness. So if you wish to dispel the dark like the word guru itself, the guru and the ru the the dark and the removing of the darkness. So either we look at the yoga, we look at the sanatan dharma, we look at the yoga chikita. These are in in in in a in a in a complete picture a ways to to connect with ourself. So that's going away from that that punch transcending the avidya or any connecting with the core of our existence or atman or spirit that that allows us to become one. Now that oneness can be you know there's so many perspectives in yoga chikita or the sanatan dharma you can think of the oneness of the punchosas. So you know looking after our physical our energetic our our psychic and then our our cognitive or our absolute intelligence and the spirit itself. Maybe we can look after our punch pranayud. We can look after our chakra system. We can look after our interocial relationships, our relation with the world. As Dr. in beginning was mentioning the health is not just looking after me. I also need to look after the earth. I need to look after the environment around me. So the sadena really is to to work on ourself and you know there is no way we can change the outer world. We cannot change other people. We cannot change anybody else. The only person we can change or we can manifest the change is within us. And I believe and this is something I experience that when we make that change within us, when the inner darkness dispels, people around us also feel motivated or feel drawn to find a way to be free from the darkness. So yes, nil answer. If we wish to be free from the darkness, then we need to find this this what we call the the regularity, repetition and rhythm. But here the the rhythm and the regularity is not just like doing the same thing again and again. It it sort of really depends how you feel. You know some days if I wake up and I feel what's the point in everything and anything. If I chant couple of Gaitri mantras and connect with the Lord Ganesh helps me to move forward. If I need that si the connect chant the gaitri mantra for dura. So in in a way sort of connecting through that energy. If I feel that lethargy or heaviness then probably do the the nari sodan pranayam or the brahri pranayam the pranova pranayam. If if you need to have a mobility of your body mind and your energy then a little bit of hat yog probably a surya namaskar or something. But in in if you wish to move forward in your life, I personally believe that we need to work on all of us. Okay, when I say all of us, that means we need to work on our body. We need to work on our food or diet. We need to work on our mind, our thoughts, our mantra, our our prana, our energy system and as well as our whole life philosophy which is the the whole yoga is about understanding the universe, our role in this universe from the from the very perspective of the spirit which is the anantam or satsit anundam and then the very perspective of our material mind which survives for existence you know the fight flight or the the reptilian sort of mind we live in and and yeah it is a blessing to have the our our Ganandanda system where there is a tool to work on each of our aspect you know we have let's say surya namaskars to to regain our mobility we have the lavoma sequence to regain our polarity we have the the pranayam practices to work on our five building blocks our elements We have the yoga dasan to work on our psychology. So for for that sadena purpose it really I feel it doesn't matter where we are because that sadena will follow us with or within our heart and we create that astram space we create that sadena space wherever we are. So I think that's sort of like considering I I know Dr. I kept it really very precise. So I will keep it also precise to to let you all come back. I hope I answered what you are asking Nilansel. Yes, Kandandy G. Thank you so much for your answer and definitely like uh when doctors started with the three secrets that he mentioned with the personal centric approach that we have with the yoga chikatsa then the processor oriented then the salutenic orientation from you we get a very detailed in a very uh capsule of the three are repetition rhythm and regularity and do your best and leave the rest. So for the audience it is very much needed to keep noting it down all the secrets before you forget anyone. So thank you so much GandV G and definitely wisdom and practice both are needed to be integrated and without that it is very difficult to have a healthy body mind and soul. So holistic health depends on the sadhana that we uh have and 24 hours sadhana and that is equals to the yoga not only for 1 hour that uh practice is done. So thank you so much for putting that together. Now uh coming uh to the next panelist I would like to uh welcome Karim Silberg. Uh it is my heartfelt pleasure to welcome Karine Silberg. Uh I hope I pronounce the name correctly. Apologies if there is any mistake. Uh a dedicated physotherapist, acupuncturist and yoga therapist who beautifully blends science, movement and mindfulness in her healing work. Trained in the Gita yoga tradition under Dr. Anand Balogi Bhavani G Karine brings depth, compassion and a deep connection to nature into her therapy and teaching. She mentors therapist globally and is co-authoring the upcoming book pranayama for healing and transformation and she's also a student of Ananta Gi. So she has a lot of understanding in the field of yoga chikatsa. And I also remember the last time when you came to Pondicherry and visited our university. We had a discussion in the uh orthop department and we were seeing the some patients who were coming and we had a very detailed discussions over the uh setup yoga therapy your work and our work and all. So it was a beautiful experience to had you and a person as well and now we are here with the online with the yoga chikata. So let's warmly welcome you uh and to uh get some insights on holistic healing and the way of life. And the question that I have for you like as a physotherapist and yoga is a practitioner trained in the ganandha tradition. How do you integrate physical therapy with yogic practices like asana, pranayam, maybe swar yoga, pranic awareness in your work with individuals experiencing the basic problems like the chronic pain, posture imbalances or energetic depletion. Thank you Nilachi. Uh namaste everyone. Uh it's a pleasure and an honor to be here. Um and thank you for the question and a lot of the introduction. Well, um as a physical therapist and moving into a yoga therapist, integrative yoga therapy and after with the Gita Chikita yoga training, uh I got a lot of depth and open eyes perspective along along the years. Um I have been treating patients 27 years now and moving into mentoring um a little bit of therapy therapist, yoga therapist and physiootherapist on their care seeker care and I think the main thing that I bring that my learnings are on those times and especially bringing into after the getting the blessed and receiving all all the tools of the Gitananda tradition. I see that in any any dysfunction or illness that a car seeker present uh it's a message and I think yoga chikita helped us to facilitate to the that message to decode that message facilitate the the care seeker to decode that message and to understand that message. So looking at the imbalance or that illness or that disease as a manifestation of that something it's it's going on. And that message is an opportunity for the care seeker to review values, rethink relationships and rethink their attitude within the world, within their family and within the environment that they are in. Um so when I see uh an individual like my amnesis process I will always look into their body language right as a physical therapist as I will look into their posture their breathing pattern their past medical history current life stressors their relationship with uh and their families their relationship with the natural world which dear YandG also brought their The importance of the relationship with nature around is very important because as Sanka philosophy says everything that is outside is inside of us. So how is that relationship with that caretaker like that will give me so every every little piece it's a clue right? Um so the tools that were granted especially through yoga chikita training uh helped me to deepen my anaminesis process a lot bringing a lot of philosophical and spiritual basis to that an anaminis that before I also start to before just as a physical therapist was very superficial was very um separated and was not together and during years like training with Ananti and integrative yoga therapy I say oh those pieces actually tie together what this was my learning with integrative yoga and then with yoga chikita and then the gananda 12point of diagnosis system of this tradition this parara I was able to deepen and like yeah the pieces are there are several pieces that we need to really look into, but they are also are all tied together. So, I was able to find all those pieces more and more details and I was able to see like the big picture more and more around that clue that is the illness or the dysfunction. And then fin like the tools that Gitananda yoga brought to me like the jatis, the kas, the yana yoga creas, the pranic manipulation, darana mantras, I was able to bring those tools very little by little through my care seekers and understanding that uh and this was a lot of learning that I have with FG like it's Not like one hour a session, but how can I bring that like little drops several times a day like giving like homework to the care seeker several like little drops during the week. this will make a difference and not like one week a session where I would do a compuncture or or something like this and then oh we are not moving as I wanted to move with the treatment but then now okay if I give little by little little drops you do it like 10 minutes in the morning of this and five minutes in the evening and the the results start to to spark and like flowers starting into blue. And this was very enlightening I think from yoga chikita like those little homeworks those little pieces like that actually change the life and sometimes like yogathy that Dr. sir mentioned like I starting though that homework okay like I will tell my care seeker that the goal is this but let's put that a little bit of spirituality here even though my care seeker was not even thinking about yoga philosophy or yoga spirituality but now I understand that if we don't touch those places healing will not occur so how I can Brink and drop bring in drop by drop that focus of that care seeker to look to these areas that are so important and that really what really matters and that their illness their chief complaint really is just a message and what is behind that message. So we try starting to yoga chikita helped to bring light to that other areas that are behind that message. Um for example, I can bring example and just let me in passing my time speaker that had has like 37 years old but with 18 he had a litomy of his upper lobes of the lungs left lung he took like onethird of the lung out due to cancer and he came to me like feeling that willing like to gain uh breath capacity, lung expansion. Uh beside that he was feeling like he always had lack of energy and we wanted to we started to work like with Athenas what he wanted to do. But then so little by little I was putting in spirituality and putting in other factors that improves his life a lot and also his connection with all the elements and all the energetical word. So that is one what what I wanted to share. Thank you Karine. Thank you for that beautiful sharing and definitely like the homework that works a lot and the relationship with the nature and how you mentioned with the care seeker as well is very much important and uh definitely from where you have mentioned and with the Ganadev G that he has pointed out I have his book with me if you can see so uh definitely um it is very much important and where the 12point diagnosis system of the Gita yoga tradition it is very vital and the practices that it offers like the hatennas and and all the other practices of the pranic practices related with the ghani yoga kas and all the relaxation and everything that goes in the low mobile and other all the therapeutic approaches that it offers has a lot of to do uh uh in the helpful in the yoga. uh so uh with that I just want to uh uh like with the audience just give one more uh point here like uh the secret that we're getting here the therapy aspects of the ganand tradition that is 12point diagnosis system then the uh the hatas if you don't know hatinaz is also one of the very important powerful practice in this tradition and the important part is like the relationship with the nature and the care seeker So those are the secrets. a few more secrets and uh there is a and uh I had a very good experience in this tradition where I enrolled with the yoga step-by-step correspondence course which was happened during the covid time and it was really a transformative journey there for the whole one year and it taught a lot related to the yoga chikatsa approach that we can have and besides having a background of yoga a student in bachelor's and masters. It helped me to learn a lot of things new. So those who are new to this tradition or listening something new they can start the yoga chikata journey uh with the yoga stepby-step course. Uh it is a very correspondent course. It is very beginning journey where you can uh learn a lot of aspects of yoga chikatsa. And uh we will share you the details in the mail. And now coming back uh to our next panelist without taking much of the time. So I'd like to welcome Don Browning. It is a pleasure to welcome Dr. Don Browning, a certified yoga therapist who published a researcher and a dedicated practitioner of the Rishiashtanga Gita yoga tradition. With over a decade of yogic study and a PhD in ecology, Dawn beautifully bridges scientific research and traditional yoga wisdom to support holistic healing, mental clarity, and energetic balance. Founder of whole soul wellness in New Mexico, USA. She continues to inspire through her teaching, writing, and ongoing yoga research. Let us warmly welcome Dr. Don Browning to share her insights on integrative yoga and whole person wellness. And the question that I have with you is like with your unique background as an ecologist and yoga therapist, how do you perceive the interconnectedness between environmental rhythm, the panic intelligence and whole person healing as taught in the Gita yoga tradition. Namaste everyone. I will um repeat that I am honored to be here and very excited um and so I'm honored to be part of this panel. Um so I want to as I respond to that really great question Nachoel I want to thank you for that because it's inspired me to like it's inspired me greatly with different ideas. Um so uh I will say that um my background in ecology and um and through the integrative yoga therapy program and then with the Ganoni yoga tradition I can't not see the interconnectedness of all things. It's almost potentially could be a personality flaw, right? I mean there like things are not nothing is simple. um potentially and I think the important thing that the the gem I guess that came through for me and I'll credit um Swami G with maybe dropping this into my mind is that yoga is living ecology because everything is connected. Um Dr. sir opened with this you know yoga is the glue that holds us us and it all together um Yand gi with the 24-hour sadna and um and Karen G oh my gosh with the um planting the seeds of soda with micro doses of spirituality so that's what I've already received um through the other speakers I guess what I will add is that everything is connected did and that is true and I think grounding that in an understanding of our environment like you cannot be healthy in an unhealthy environment you just can't and it's because we are everything that is outside of us is inside of us from sia philosophy and so it's really what I have come to understand most clearly through my sadna and training in the gananda tradition and with uh the pranayyama sadna and and is really that I now have the tools that can make these concepts concrete. So I'm a very um intellectual or I think a lot. I f I spend a lot of time in my head and through yoga and living it, it brings me into the body, into the moment, into my connection and into relationship. And I think maybe that is my um my nugget if you will is that yoga is living in relationship with all that is. And ecology offers so many concrete examples of this. Um, and even bringing it to this very act of respiring. You're taking in the air from the outside and you're emitting CO2. That is the most intimate, potentially sacred exchange that there is. And I think that's become for me a really beautiful example that I am now carrying forward um largely in group settings although I am working more with um one-on-one care seekers but it it has been I think for me that's been the way that I communicate and I have found in this modern world of connection and this Zoom womb that we're currently in There are also with the modern portrayal of yoga um really some challenges with it that I h at least that I have seen right with and that's why I love the micro doses of spirituality is is maybe what was what I was missing and needed but I do think that in working with others you do need to offer a quick win so it's not one pill for one ill as Dr. sir had indicated, but do deliver through your your work with others like something that they can grasp like a quick win because that will be that connection that they may need in the mind maybe that little hit of dopamine if you will to kind of keep going. And I think until the the whole like our global civilization can understand the true grasp of what yoga is this multi-dimensional multiaceted true lifestyle medicine that Dr. has said like I think as we are acquainting the broader public with the richness of what yoga truly is um those those small steps I guess I'll just reemphasize what what Karen G said is you know these small steps to start with and um I feel like maybe I lost something there. Oh, I wanted to come back to the oos is the root of ecology and holos is the root of holistic. Oos is home, holistic is whole. And I feel like both of these terms directly directly connect to yoga. I mean, which is the root of of yoking. And I think that yoga is um I'm seeing it now more as like just the relationship like mastering the relationships both with yourself and others and the the world. Um I so I really think and I think with the Gitananda tradition specifically with is very grounded. It's tactical but not constrained to being tactical. It offers very effective tactics and um I was struggling with how to say this like these isms I don't know if I want to say gin gitananda isms or swami isms because it's also these these punchy relevant wise things that swami and Dr. sir have kind of delivered to us the do your best and leave the rest um is certainly one that's already been mentioned today and um oh yoga as like the the art science and teachings of right useeness that was probably the first thing that really struck me um uh early on you know responsibly using resources that includes includes your attention, your love, um as well as the petrol. And so I think this kind of living in harmony is certainly what um yoga is is all about. Um and I guess the second part of the question did you ask about the research component nilachel or was how um research can validate yoga chikits? uh uh not uh I just related with the uh intelligence and whole person healing as it as taught in the Gita yoga tradition. I think you have covered that part. If you want to answer something more, you're most welcome. I just wanted to say one other thing and that was related to how can how can the science of yoga research um I I think maybe in our conversations we the word validate came up and I think I feel like demonstrate maybe a better verb to use to this because the rishies have known a lot and or all of these concepts that have been handed down through um the the millennia and for us to try to constrain it to a single biological trait is I think we're missing the mark. However, scientific evidence is certainly helpful and needed in some circles and I yoga research is so important and I'm h I'm excited to be taking part in it. that I feel like we haven't yet developed the tools necessarily to quantify some of the things that are imparted through the teachings and as researchers working with the general public just to kind of help communicate that I think would would potentially help bridge a little more easily. So um thank you for the time and opportunity to be here and share my thoughts. Uh thank you Don and uh a lot of uh secrets uh we came to know now from your expression and Dr. S has mentioned all those in the chat box. So I just wanted to jump in for a moment because I think Don you have brought out a very beautiful point that we don't need to validate yoga. I think this is a very pertinent point which I would like to reiterate to our audience both the live and those who will watch it in the future that yoga research and this is as someone who for the last 30 years that has been my life yoga research for me is not to validate yoga but I do yoga research in order to understand it better so I don't need validation Anybody who practices and lives yoga knows that it works. So the yoga research outcomes, the papers, the publications, the projects are for the non-believers. That's actually what it is for the person who is doing it. People say why do you do yoga research if you know it works. I say I know it works but I want to understand the hows and the wise a bit more for myself so that I can explain it to others who may not have that capacity. So it is in order to have a communication we need the research but anybody who practices it you know how you feel with any practice you do kapali you know your neurons are just singing with joy you do brahari they are all just enjoying that tranquil bliss you don't need eg electrodes to tell you that but then somebody who doesn't do brahari and you want to convince them to prescribe it for one of their care seekers. There you need the research. So I think it's a beautiful point you brought up. Thank you for bringing that up because uh as a researcher I think it is important to know why we are doing the research uh as much as doing it. Thank you for sharing and please continue nilach. I'm just enjoying this wonderful beautiful team here. Thank you sir. Thank you for giving us this opportunity. And here Droi also pointed it out beautifully where she says that it quantifies what it uh what it what is quantifiable and there is a lot which cannot be quantified and just experienced. So definitely yoga is an experiential journey and with that uh we got a lot of secrets of yoga chikatsa from here like the yoga is a living ecology planting this seeds and embodies the high ideals and makes them real. Yoga is the living in relationships with all that is and yoga is lifestyle mind body medicines and small steps are important and to understand these concepts more in a better way uh there are a lot of articles that Amama Gi used to write and it comes in the yoga life magazine of the Gita tradition and when I started reading it it has a very deep understanding and it gives a very multi multi-dimensional articles and there are a lot of perceptions where we understand yoga as a whole personcentric approach and it gives a very better and broader meaning uh to yogic philosophy. So those who have not read yoga life earlier you can check it out and there are both Hindi and English versions of the yoga life. So these are very uh uniquely written and Amama Gi who used to be a journalist she has a beautiful way of writing and her articles uh in English and which is also translated in Hindi both are very beautiful and to easy to understand. So go and check out if you haven't yet. So now coming back to our another next panelist uh Kamla Pilgrim from Canada and it is with great joy and respect that we welcome Dr. Kamla Pilgrim a clinical psychologist yoga teacher and passionate lifelong student of both science and spiritual wisdom based in Canada. Kamla blends her deep roots in psychology and neuroscience with the timeless practice of yoga. A dedicated student of the Gita yoga tradition and yoga Dr. Anand Balogi Bhavrani Sa she brings a truly integrative approach to healing. She is the founder of inner thriving holistic psychology where she evidence-based uh therapy meets the clock yique insight. Let us warmly welcome Dr. Kamla Pilgrim as she shares her unique wisdom and vision of mind body healing through the unique union of psychology and yoga and with uh that I have a question for you uh as a clinical psychologist and you have studied neuroscience h how do you integrate evidence-based psychological approaches with yogic tools from the ganandanda yoga tradition such as the pranayam psychic neurology and the understanding of conditions uh situations like n where misalignment among the punch kosha leads to psychosomatic distress. Over to you Kamla Gi. Okay, thank you. Just echoing everyone else here. It is really such an honor to be included on the panel. Thank you so much for having me so far. It's been very enlightening. Um I think that the question that you just asked me is um just very much related to what we were just talking about how a lot of the time within psychology and also in yoga there is a lot of emphasis on empirical validation. And so I as a clinical psychologist am often asked you know to use empirically valid treatments in my work with people. And so it's interesting because as we were just talking about a lot of the yoga practices are are already very much demonstrated in the people that have practiced with them. So if you have your own sadena, you know that these practices are very life-changing. And so it's challenging in some ways because these outcomes and the outcomes of yoga practice itself are not always very obvious unless you're practicing. And it is something that I find interesting because we do have to do our clinical work under the realm of empirical validation as well. We have to be showing that the practices are valid in some scientific way. But often times you only really see the outcome and the benefits of the practices from your own sadena. And sometimes it's these subtle small practices that you do a little by little every day as we were saying um that really reveal the benefits over time. And so yes, I think it's important to do the research and to continue to um demonstrate the scientific outcomes, but a lot of it is challenging to actually measure. I think we don't have the tools yet as uh Dr. Don Browning was saying um but we are developing them and I think as well that a lot of it is subjective and there needs to be an appreciation of that. Um so when I was thinking about answering this question some other quotes came to mind as well. Um and it overlaps with a lot of what people have already said. So u I thought I would share just a few. So Dr. Swami Ganandiri talks about how yoga therapy is the return of the mind. Uh so the return of mind that feels separated from the universe in which it exists. And I really love that quote because it comes back to what Dr. Anandi was saying at the beginning um about the importance of recognizing that human beings all of us are actually already whole. And when we perceive people in this way, it invites a certain level of compassion for ourselves and for the person that we're sitting with as well. And um it's a less harshly pathizing way of working with people and it's also person- centered as Dr. Anand G was saying uh as well as humanistic. So people are are seen automatically as inherently good at their core and as having a natural urge and tendency to want to grow and self-actualize. Um, so I really love that definition because in my work with people in trying to blend the yoga therapy in an empirically valid way with other psychology interventions, starting off with that framework is very helpful. Seeing people as whole and looking to see what are the processes um or different ways of being that are contributing to them feeling out of alignment. And so a couple of other quotes that also overlap with u my understanding of yoga therapy and why I think it's important to bring in yoga therapy with clinical work in psychology. Um one is by Dr. Anand G that he shares quite often which is if it doesn't empower the individual from within it is not yoga therapy. So we've been talking a lot about how we are all interconnected with everything else. And what I love about the gitananda tradition and the way yoga chikitsa is taught here is that it's an extremely empowering way of working with people. The emphasis is on helping people to feel that they have the power to bring changes into their lives on their own. And that doesn't mean that they don't ask for help or connect with other people, but the emphasis is on looking within yourself first and seeking to understand who you are and who you are as a unique soul and then from from going inward to outward to the way that you then interact with the world. So it's just uh I love that emphasis of looking within first and then that's why the one of the practice mottos at inner thriving holistic psychology is flourish from the inside out because I feel as though that emphasis on looking within first is so important um and enlightening and the last uh quote that I thought I would share that it's Dr. Dr. Nanj's interpretation of a Bhagavag Gita passage and it's lift the self by the self and so the first self is with a small S and the other S is with a bigger S. So it's indicating that we have that ability to look within ourselves in order to grow and evolve. It's all coming from within and going outward. And yes, even though we will want to connect with other people and uh recognize that connection more deeply, it often does start with going in and lifting the self purposefully with intention from the inside out. Um, so those were just some quotes that inform why I think it's important to include yoga therapy into psychology work. And to answer the question that you asked more specifically about how I can integrate evidence-based psychological approaches with yogic tools from the Gitananda tradition. Um there are a few ways some of which are a little bit more um implicit. So I think it starts at the level of when I'm first meeting with clients coming back to that humanistic person- centered way of interacting with people. So um the gitananda yoga chikitsa tradition really emphasizes listening for specific information and observing specific things. So going back to that the diagnostics that we use we are observing the way people are moving their tone of voice uh their mannerisms the words that they're not saying the words that they are saying. And yes, in clinical psychology, we're also trained to do that. This is a little bit part of our work in the clinical interviewing process. But within the Gitananda Yoga Chikitsa school, I feel like it's even more deeply ingrained uh that we're looking for very specific things. So, or different behaviors when we're observing people. And so for example we might be looking for as I said patterns of speech movements how people are moving etc. And that can really help us to understand the person on a bigger level and then also it can help us to later use interventions that are tailored to that individual more specifically. So it helps us to develop hypotheses about the kinds of interventions that would be good to use. So things like looking for the energy that the people are exuding tamasic, rajasic, satvic and then having understood that later being able to help with specific interventions that can balance those energies. Um, another way that again is a little bit more implicit or subtle in terms of how I can bring yoga therapy into my work with people is through understanding exactly what Dr. Anaji was saying at the beginning that u individuals are very very complex. There's a tendency sometimes to try to box people in especially when we give diagnosis. we can make assumptions about the kinds of interventions that might help that particular person. Um, but in the Gitanji yoga tradition, it's very much ingrained in us to understand that there really isn't a one-sizefits-all approach to working with people. And so in that initial intake, in those initial intakes, when we're doing this, getting to know the person and observing certain things and listening for certain certain um ways of describing that the client may have, we're also staying attuned to what the root cause of the misalignment that the person is describing might be. Um, and so, um, if we have a person, for example, that I've diagnosed with depression and we notice that they have all of the characteristic symptoms of that disorder, um, we would not necessarily make the assumption that we would just use one particular mode of therapy for them. Again, not a one-sizefits-all model. There are many individuals who are experiencing depression for various different reasons. It could be because of an overdoing in the world, over approach uh versus a withdrawing. And understanding what that root cause of the disorder is is just really important in terms of being able to tailor the types of yoga therapy as well as psychological interventions that we use. ultimately. Um, and then the third way that I thought of to share uh is a little bit more specific. So, uh, in terms of how I would integrate yoga therapy into psychotherapy work. So, there are some specific interventions that are again empirically validated by a lot of scientific research. Um and so one way that we can bring the yoga therapy in is through using it as an adjunct to what is already being addressed in the psychotherapy. So uh cognitive behavioral therapy is one of the most researched many people probably know of it. It's one of the most researched psychotherapies. Um, and the model is depicted as a triangle where it's believed that thoughts are impacting emotions and behaviors and those arrows that are connecting and influencing each other are birectional. But what's missing in that model is the physiological component. And so one way as I was saying that we can incorporate more of a yogic lens yoga therapy is through recognizing what is not addressed in one type of therapy in clinical psychology and then bringing it in. So addressing the psychological the sorry physiological component uh which is not being addressed so much within CBT. Um, we know and what I understand from the Gitananda tradition and from practicing yoga myself is that one of the best or one of the most beautiful contributions of yoga therapy is the ability to teach people skills and tools for relaxing and grounding. And so there are just so many tools that we can use to help people do that and we can add that into an intervention that's already existing. Um, another way that we can bring in the yoga therapy in a way that would be seen as more empirically valid is um through looking at the pract the interventions the psychology interventions that are already getting a lot of backing and just noticing that a lot of the processes that are being targeted are already actually yoga essentially. So one of the the one of the types of therapy that are used a lot more that is used a lot more nowadays is called acceptance and commitment based therapy and it is a thirdwave type of psychotherapy that is an offshoot of cognitive behavioral therapy and um this particular therapy emphasizes process-based work like Dr. Dr. Nandi was also talking about earlier. So the emphasis is more on the processes that are going on contributing to suffering and there are six processes within ACT that are emphasized as important to address and to work with in order to regain a sense of alignment or what is called psychological flexibility. Psychological flexibility is seen as um a mark of health and within the ACT acceptance and commitment based therapy approach any psychological inflexibility is seen as contributing to um disease or lack of wellness. Um and so um there are six processes involved in ACT and four of the six are mindfulness. So one of them is acceptance. Another one is you know creating distance between the thoughts that are coming up uh not hooking on to them in the mind creating some distance non-judgmentally in the mind between the types of thoughts that are showing up etc. And so another way that we can bring in the yoga in a way that would be seen as more empirically valid is by using skills that are already inherent to Gitanji yoga tradition that facilitate mindfulness. And there are many and I don't know that uh you know mindfulness is essentially yoga. It's just a term that was created by Dr. John Kabitzin primarily. Um but um it really stems from Eastern philosophy and from yoga. So there are many practices that we can work with within the Gita Ganandanda tradition that would be acting to facilitate mindfulness, acceptance and ability to sit with difficult emotions, make room for them, all of which are targets within ACT already, if that makes sense. So those were some of the ideas that I had um around how to incorporate yoga therapy in a way that would be seen as empirically valid. So hopefully that made sense and uh I'll stop there for now. Okay. Thank you for that beautiful sharing Kamla and a lot of things to be taken from your sharing and a lot of like Dr. Nandasar is being repeatedly uh mentioning the all the secrets that you are sharing with us all and definitely uh if you if we continue for this like all more follow-up questions it will come going and we will not be finishing it in on time and it it we have a lot of things to discuss share and this is just a glimpse that we are getting so thank you for those beautiful sharing kaml Yes sir. I would like to ask as we have yoga Ananta G with us. I would like to request him to share with us a bit because uh as you know Ananta G uh was honored as one of our yoga chikits by the Indian yoga association and is a pioneer in this field. So having you here is so special. So I feel it would be wonderful to have your wisdom shared with all of us. Thank you. Well, I'm I've been uh doing as you know I've been doing a translation of the yoga sutras for the last 15 years. And so I just keep I just keep uh editing and editing and editing. So I I think I'm on about the fifth or sixth edit, but uh so I'm I'm back at the beginning right now. And so when we think about uh when we think about yoga therapy, I just think how u how important those first four sutras are. So now now the journey of yoga begins. And so that now um so important in terms of therefore therefore I've made a decision. I've made a decision that uh the answer ultimately is going to be within me. It's not something that the world's going to give me. I'm going to be in relationship with the world. I'm going to be in relationship with my environment. But the world is not going to give me something that I can't give myself. And the second part of that now is that it's only going to happen in the now. Yeah. So, um, the past and the future I'm going to need to bring into the now in order to work with them. So, those uh that therefore and that now they're they're really the the beginning of that journey. I've decided that I'm going to be work working with my mind here and now. And then the next part is that stilling the mind. And so that's where all of the that's where all of these tools come in. And um so when we talk about stilling the mind, I see that that has three levels. The first are the techniques and and this is where I see the Ganandanda tradition as being so absolutely unique in that having spent six months going around all over India and uh Ananta G I think somehow there's a the mute has come we need to unmute Yeah, I think this by mistake it's you're talking about six months in India. Yeah. So, and seeing that uh this stilling the mind, I see it as having three parts. The first is the techniques. The second is the witnessing and the third is recognizing our inherent stillness. And so what I saw in that six months is that um the Gita Nandanda tradition within India has a wealth of techniques that aren't available anywhere else and that most of what I saw that was actually so unique and creative was really taken from the Gita tradition and so those techniques and having this vast variety of techniques and having those techniques at all of the different koshas I think that I that's something unique to the ganandanda tradition and then the second part of that is being able to part of that witnessing is also this self-acceptance being that uh inner psychologist so Kamla was tying this in with psychology so I think we can also be our own inner psychologist and that inner psychologist also needs to be humanistic and accepting And those are the the two kinds of silence that I think really start to lead us to that that third silence which is that the nature the nature of the mind our essence really is silence and then so then we discover um our true inner being. So this is this is this self which um which has no description. So we look at all of the descriptions of our self and then we come to the self which has no description. And then what I see is uh in yoga therapy gradually bringing this true self to the forefront of all our activities. And so integrating this true self into the anomia into the body integrating this true self into our work with the chakras and our breath. bringing this true self to the forefront. So this true self is witnessing our thoughts and feelings that this true self is really the the um the motivation for awakening buddhi this higher mind the bigamaya kosha and then all of the positive thoughts and feelings that we experience in yoga all of the anandosha this is really the reflection this is really the personality of the true self so this just a few thoughts Sunday's a few sutras that we were editing this morning. I was editing this morning. Thank you. Thank you so much for that beautiful sharing. You know, I was I was just thinking as you talked about the true self and letting that true self start to emerge and become the reality. It seemed like you know the moving from what Patanjali calls anatma the nonself to atmaati the manifestation and realization of the real self and he talks about how avidya confuses the nonself to be the self and your explanation of the journey is the reverse which is yoga chikita uh very very beautiful to listen to you Ananta because uh the experience that comes in and I loved that you're on the eighth edit of your uh work on the yoga sutra because 8 and ashtanga yoga go together so I hope that it will be one of the final edits looking forward to it of course namaste over to you nilach thank Thank you sir and thank you Ananta G for this beautiful sharing and like how you have pointed out the stealing the mind and the components of those uh techniques witnessing and uh recognition. So thank you for that and like uh we are over the time so I would just like to uh move one more round with a simple one word or one liner to conclude with that and going with back I think I just uh thinking to make a garland that mala not the mala mala so that we'll start with the u kamla only and we'll go back to the dawn then the um uh uh gander g and been falling like that in that circle. So over to you just one liner one sentence uh to concluding for the audience. Uh you need to unmute uh Kamla. Oh I'm sorry. Okay. I think I would say um what resonates right now is harmony. So harmonious. Okay. Thank you. Uh Don, over to you. Yoga is living ecology. That was beautiful. Uh Karine. Uh I think you need to unmute. Okay. Uh okay. Now please yoga is going back home. Nice. Thank you for that. Uh Ganad G. I think for me as we talk about this individuality and the universality in our spiritual and the in the word of the maya the world of the Maya not the word look after the individuality because if we can look after our own self our own dharma health and wellness the universe will be looked after itself so self-care self- love and do your best and leave for the rest wow thank Thank you and the mala or the beads cannot be completed with the sumeu that we do for the japa and all over to you Dr. S for that concluding remarks and we'll conclude with the shanti part. Yeah, first of all, thank you everyone for being part of this creating such a beautiful garland of gems, the secrets that now are not secret because they have been expressed and I'm sure that Nilachal will come out with a summary of this for all of us to witness. But I think the greatest gift we have is to be born human. Even the gods in Indian culture are said to be jealous of human beings because we are embodied. They are not embodied. They are either praa or vidha. So we are embodied. Hence we have the opportunity to do the two things that Patanjali says happen. One is have the boa the experience and then work towards apar or liberation. So we have been given this opportunity to be born human. Now it is our responsibility to be human and then manifest that inherent divinity that is our true natural state of existence. Thank you sir. With that we'll finish or we'll start this yoga chakasa journey uh with the shanti part requesting all to join palms together. Oh, [Music] loca. Om shant shante shante. Oh, [Music] thank you all for joining this uh yoga bandan event and thank you to the ministry of Aush and the Indian yoga association for supporting us and thank you all the participants for joining us. Thank you so much. I'm going to allow people to unmute and express their gratitude also now. So you can unmute and say thank you. Anything you would like to share. Thanks and gratefulness to you all. Thank you so much all speakers and Dr. sir and a special thanks to Nilachal for organizing this. Thank you very much. It was wonderful to meet together in the Gitananda family worldwide. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you for very insightful and inspiring panel. Really learned something new. Are you sir? I am very much grat by gratitude towards the tradition and from this I learned that integration yoga is the integration means it's not only by integrating our pancha kosha it is integrating with our society and also integrating with the universe and feeding the oneness that is kurakam I felt very happy to be with you and learn to more from your side thank you so much Thank you for the inspiration that you all shared with us and thank you all for the work that you're doing. Thank you so much for sharing your thoughts, insights and it was really good. I learned a lot. I like the person approach you know and I really admire that because it is how you empower people. It's not you make them dependent on you, but you need to empower them. Thank you so much. Thank you. This was very inspiring. It's an honor and a privilege to be part of Gitan family. Thank you. Thank you so much, sir. This is Aman here and uh the session was quite liberating for me and how everything from spiritual aspect of yoga to yoga therapy, psychology and uh everything uh treating flexibility, polarity, psychology all at one time. The way it blended together. Thank you so much. Thank you everyone. We'll be closing the meeting and looking forward to many more such interactions. Hart har. Thank you. Hurry