[Music] Nearly five lakh people participated in a synchronized mass yoga demonstration in Vishaka Patnam with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself leading the charge. Officials designated 326 sections, each hosting about a thousand participants with a fleet of over 3,000 buses mobilized to bring yoga practitioners to the site. The grand spectacle was aimed for multiple record setting feats including one that's recognized by the Guiney's World Records. The security at the site was ramped up with 10,000 police personnel, 1200 CCTV cameras and drone surveillance to ensure safety and precision. PM Modi said that yoga is the way of life and teaches us self-care and discipline. He added that yoga leads us from the journey of me to we initially we learn to take good care of our own health and wellness. Gradually our care and concern extend to our environment, society and planet. Yoga is a great personal discipline. At the same time, it is a system that takes us from me to we. Chief Minister and Chandra Babu Naidu said that the Andhra Pradesh is planning to introduce yoga in the school curriculum from class 9th and even establish a deemed yoga university. Scenes of yoga harmony are also emerging from across the country. At Pangong Soul Lake in Ladak, ITB soldiers from the 24th battalion performed yoga against the pristine himalian backdrop at high altitude border outpost like Dhan Singh tab and charts in Vishaka Patnam and along Tamil Ladu's coast. Indian Coast Guard personnel and families joined in yoga from sea to shore with ICG ship Shya leading yoga at sea and Rani Baka embracing the discipline on sacred shores. And for more on this, our correspondent Nikita Singh has sent us this crown report from New Delhi. Take a look. Mai, tell us about your uh personal yoga journey. What brings you here at International Day of Yoga 2025? What and what are you looking forward to? Um it has been such an honor to be part of uh of International Yoga Day here. Yoga has been the biggest part of my life for many years. For now, it's what I do full time. Uh but I never chose yoga. Yoga chose me as a voice to speak through and I feel very honored to do that. And uh listening to Hindi here, it just reminds me that yoga has no language because I feel like I understand a lot. And it's very touching to get eye contact with the person opposite me and sharing a smile even though we don't share a language and do the same movements and training both the mind and the spirit and the body at the same time. I know what what else system can do that. So I think it makes sense that we need a day to celebrate this cuz this could really be the game changer for peace in so uh so what do you have to say about this year's celebration of international day of yoga and the fact that it's the 11th year of celebrating yoga uh for the world everyone gets together for a holistic approach to well-being. Uh how do you see this day? Is this beautiful unity? Unity in diversity, bringing all the world together as one and finally realizing that we are one human humanity that it is this point of being one and all and all in one and helping us all to achieve the inner peace because the without inner peace we can never dream about the outer peace and all the stupidities that are going on now in the world. So I would like to deeply congratulate India, the Barat Mata and the Prime Minister Modi for acknowledging this international day of yoga and for repeating us for all of us that we can all do it together today. [Music]