Are you also Haram tas haram tasat haram tasat please prepare to begin our session. Adopt a comfortable asan and rest your both hands on the knee in chin mudra. Touch the tip of index finger and tip of thumb or touch the tip of index finger to base line of the thumb. Other three fingers should be straight. Hand to be rested on the knee with palm facing up. Sit firm and upright and close your eyes and mouth very gently. As you close your eyes, in front of you, visualize a fulllength mirror. Begin to experience the reflection of your body in the mirror of the mind. Visualize and see your meditation asen. Any adjustment required, please do that. Be aware of your hand mudra. Be aware of spine upright. Head is straight. Awareness of the chest and shoulder. Body balance both side. Awareness of the whole body. Awareness of the whole body, each and every muscles, joints, organs within and manifest sense of relaxation in this body and step into the state of stillness. Imagine you are a piece of rock. You are a statue. Meditate at stillness and relaxation of the body. Let body be object of your meditation. While you maintain still and relaxed body, become aware of your mental state. Awareness of the thought and ideas which is manifesting in field of your mind. Know them and consciously push them aside. Let mind to become calm, silent and peaceful. Body is still and relaxed. Mind is peaceful and silent. And within these qualities find a point of concentration at eyebrow center bradya. At eyebrow center visualize a flame of light. Joti be aware of the outline of the flame. Be aware of its luminosity. Concentrate at the flame of light. While you meditate at this flame of light, we will chant three ohms Shanti mantra following chanting of Mahamerunj and Gaitri mantra. For Om chanting, take a deep breath in. Oh. [Music] Oh. Oh. [Music] Oh. Heat. Oh su [Music] to with vish. Om shanty shanty shanty ho. Continue the state of kayatheium, [Music] state of concentration of bhumada, ibro center. Make salp for healing, energy, power, immunity and strength. Mentally chant this sankal two more times and we will chant 11 times Mahamerunj mantra together. [Music] for [Music] for [Music] [Music] [Music] Brit. Om Fore! [Music] Foreign! Foreign! Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Triita. [Music] Oh, [Music] with Oh, [Music] [Music] Om shanty shanty shanty hurry. [Music] Continue with kayatheium and your concentration at the flame of light at the eyebrow center. Make sankulp for wisdom, inner clarity, intuitive knowledge, learning, perception and opening the dormant doors of intelligence. Mentally chant this sulp two more times for your mental well-being. And with this salp we will chant Gaitri mantra 11 times together. [Music] Foreign [Music] Fore! Foreign! Foreign! [Music] That's [Music] [Music] Omaha [Music] basa. That's [Music] [Music] the Oh, [Music] Oh, [Music] shanty. Shanty Shanty. Be aware of the vibration of Mahamerunj and Gaitri Mantra enveloping your body and mind with grace, peace, happiness and the healing. Now prepare for palming. Keeping the eyes closed, join the palm with each other. Rub your palm. Generate the warmth. And once you feel temperature, place it softly on the eyes. Open eye inside the palm. and gently remove your hand. Come out of your asan and just make your leg feel comfortable. Just bounce it gently. We have been seated for some time. As you are sitted in praamic siti, place your hand behind back straight and be aware of your toes. the padanguli. Bend all the 10 toes forward. Create the sense of squeezing. Then turn your toes completely back towards you. Add breath. Exhale. Turn your toes back. Inhale. Exhale. Squeezing. Inhale stretching and be aware of only the response from all the 10 toes. Other parts are steady and firm and every round of bending the toes generating sensation in the toe cavities. You may feel your brain interacts, blood circulation enhance, toes feel good. And this is the last round. Once you are done, relax. And now be aware of your ankles. Keeping your toe and other part relaxed. Exhale. Bend your feet down as if you're going to touch the feet to the ground. Then inhale, turn your feet back towards you. Exhale, bend your feet down. Inhale, turn your feet back towards you. Toes are not bending. Your knee joints are also steady. And when you bring the feet towards as if the feet will go to sinbone. And when you take the feet away as if the feet will go to the bumi earth. Exhale. Inhale. When you exhale, take your feet down. You may feel there is a stretch in your knee. And when you turn the feet back towards you. There is a natural contraction in the kneecap. If it is happening well and good. There is a stretch in the knee kneecap. There is a contraction also. And this is the ankle bending gulf naman. After this round and the practice, be aware of your ankles and the sensations that you have generated in it. We will rotate the ankle. Next, separate your leg to some distance, not too much. Be aware of the both feet looking is standing. Bend your feet forward without bending the toe and take both in same direction towards you and the same direction away from you. Gulf chakra ankle rotation towards you. Inhale away from you. Exhale and knee should not drop. Inhale three. Exhale three. Knee should not drop. Inhale four. Exhale four. This is what is called starium. Inhale five. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale 7. Exhale 7. Now reverse it. Inhale 1. Exhale 1. Inhale 2. Exhale 2. Inhale 3. Exhale 3. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale 5. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale 7. Exhale 7. Now bring your feet together. Be aware of your ankles and we will do janu falak akaran asan or it's called januan asan also kneecap contraction and relaxation. Both hands to come on both kneecap back straight fit proper and standing. Ankles are neutral. Inhale. Tighten the kneecap and push the kneecap towards the thigh. We are just keeping the hand to feel the kneecap. Not doing anything in your kneecap with your hand. And exhale. You release it. Inhale. Contract the kneecap. Push it towards the thigh. Hold breath inside for some time and be aware of its gift. Muladhar chakra lock which is called mulband and the point between the hipbone got contracted which is called sajoli vajoli is happening. Now exhale inhale contract the kneecap and experience mulband sahajoli vajoli as its gift to you. Exhale. Inhale. Hold for some time. Hold breath inside. And then exhale once again. Inhale. Exhale. One more time. Inhale. Exhale. Now we are going to sit in vajra asan. If you're not comfortable, please stand up or you sit as you like. Don't force to sit in vajrasan. And we are going to do the wrist rotation. Extend the hand in the front. Put your thumb inside to touch the tip of thumb to base line of little finger and fold the four fingers. Make the fist tight into adi mudra and only the fist to be tight but not whole hand. Bend your wrist down and look at your both wrist and rotate them clockwise in same direction up. Forearm will not move and twist down. This is called stadium. We want wrist to rotate. Only wrist will be in the action. Other part will be still and still. Inhale 3. Exhale 3. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale 5. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale 7. Exhale 7. Reverse. Now same direction for both. Inhale 2. Exhale 2. Inhale 3. Exhale 3. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale five, exhale five. Inhale 6, exhale six. Inhale 7 and exhale 7. Is your hand. Make sure you are comfortable with your leg whichever posture you are in. And we will do scand chakra shoulder rotation. Extend your hand. Bend your elbow. Finger on the shoulder. Elbow touches. Inhale. Go up. Exhale. Come down. Steadiness and firmness. The two quality to carry. And make sure you're sitted upright and straight. If your shoulders are rounded, spine is not straight, the rotation becomes even harmful. So, make sure your posture quality is good. You're not sitted rounded and hunched. Inhale five. Exhale five. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale 7. Exhale 7. Let us reverse it now. Inhale 1. Exhale 1. Inhale 2. Exhale 2. Inhale 3. Exhale 3. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale 5. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale seven. Exhale seven. Now ease your hand. Be aware of your shoulders. Remain seated in vajrasan or you come to standing pose. And we will only do the hand part of gomuk asan not the leg part. So raise your right hand up, left hand down. If you are not comfortable with vajra asan, please remain in standing asan. Stand up and hold the hand. Bring comfort, innocence and peace in your body and mind. The posture reflect these mental and emotional qualities and slowly breathe as if you're doing yogic inhalation exhalation which is called purak energing [Music] in the spine. 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20. Let us relax the hand. Your base the legs are firm. Spine should be upright and then holding the hand become easy. Hold the hand other way. Keep the eyes closed. Bring comfort and peace. Silence in your head, heart and breathe peacefully like pranayam into purakurak sadena. You may follow the abdominal breathing or you may follow the spine as if you're doing ajap. 1. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 and 20. Let us release the hand and relax for some time. If you are in vajasan or in standing, relax and observe the practice in both. And we are ready for the next practice which is arda rasan half camel pose. For the practice we need to be on the knee. So let you stand on the knee. Be aware of the cushioning under the knee. If you're not comfortable, fold the mat. Keep your both knee and fourth feet together or little apart maximum to the hip width. If you look down, your legs should not look triangle but parallel to each other. If you can't touch the finger to the heel, let the feet be standing toe ball on. So be flexible to create adjustment. Avoid pushing the hip sideway. We have to push the hip front. So stretch the front of the thigh, front of the hip and front of lower abdomen. Keep the breath diaphiric. Inhale. Hand to the raised sideway. And make a diagonal line. Keep the finger a little above the eye. Touch the right finger to the right heel. Even you can touch left that's fine. And push your thigh forward. Inhale coming to the center. Exhale twisting to the left side. Inhale center. Exhale right. Inhale center. Exhale left your dishi at the fingers of front hand. Inhale center right three center. Left three center right four center left four center right five center left five center we'll do Level two of it. Go right. And the hand which is in the front. Keep pushing the thigh. You may take it fully up perpendicular to the floor. You may follow the fingers of the hand and then lower the hand and bring to the center. Exhale. Left side. Inhale. Center. right two. You may touch the finger to the right or left heel. Inhale center. Exhale left side. Inhale center. Right three center. Left three center. Right four center. Left four center. Right. Five center. Left five center and now lower your hand and we'll go to sasangasan. If you have ankle problem you try lizard pose utan press asan instead of sasangasan. Relax in sasang asan. On the wake up maintain half sleep mode which is the state of yoga nidra. You're not fully awake and sleeping and you switch yourself to sasangasan for couple of minute. This help you to wake up the body, prana and mind with better grace and comfort. And after living sasang asand maintaining that sleep mode you can do mantra sadhana we chanted gaitri mahabharatan and those of you know 32 names of mahadura to create health in the body mind and spreading positivity in your surrounding and entering into the world after That from sasangasan we will come to marjari asan cat pose. So come into cat asan become four-legged hand and leg has to be proper and we are going to do the variation of cat pose. This is balancing mode for the purpose of balancing alignment and also preventing scoliosis. Be aware of right leg. Inhale. Take it behind as if you're stretching the leg. If you are comfortable then only you take left hand front. Otherwise you do only leg part and do tadasan as if tardasan is happening parallel with the floor. Usually we do perpendicular. And then exhale come down. Be aware of left leg, right hand. Inhale. Exhale. Sense of balance is very important. Diagonal balance. Inhale. Two. Exhale. Two. Inhale. Two. Try to keep the breath diaphiric to engage the core for the breathing and strength. Inhale. Three. Exhale 3. Inhale 3. Exhale 3. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale 5. Exhale 5. Inhale 5. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale six. Inhale six. Exhale six. Last round. We try to hold one round. If you can't, you can come out of it. Let go the vibration in the body. Become still, still and comfortable, relaxed. Steadiness and firmness in your quality of the body. And the yogic inhalation and exhalation is called purak and rachak. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and 10. Let us do other side. First create the adjustment. Let us do other side. Sense of balance, steadiness, firmness, stir and still and comfort. Aram within you. Yogic inhalation and exhalation. Dishi on a point. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and 10. And we are going to land into utan prist asan the lizard pose. Put your forearms on the floor. With right hand grab the left shoulder. With the left hand grab the right uh not shoulder, upper hand. Now push the elbow a little forward. So grabbing with your hand the upper arms of opposite side. Push the elbow a little bit. Keep your foot and knee together. And inside the hand put your forehead on the floor. The lizard pose utan prist asan create the state of steadiness firmness still and still and do diaphic breathing. You need not to do it. It's a gift of this assan. Automatically your breath become diaphic here [Music] and be aware this unique asan which help you to improve your respiratory health, reproductive health, rounding of shoulder goes Tension from back muscles goes a tint of invert also natural. Now lift your head keeping your hand firm. Let you go down to the floor and come to adavasan. Adavasan means lying posture on the tummy. Chin forehead or cheek on the floor. Adjust your clothes. Become comfortable. And next practice we will do subtle bhujang asan. Gentle cobra pose. Not cobra pose. Elbow will touch the rib cage. Forearms on the floor. Be aware of the gap between your hand. It should be shoulder width and both hands are parallel. chin or forehead on the floor. If you have back pain, stiffness, you may separate your feet to shoulder width. If you are comfortable, you keep the feet together and ankle extended. Keeping the forearm firm, inhale, gently lift your head and chest up. Be aware of your hips, navl on the floor. and your legs are very strong as you have extended the ankle. You may notice the calf and hamstring has sense of contraction but the thigh and knee and ankle has sense of stretch. Push your chest forward, shoulder backward, arm strong, leg strong and feel the support to your shoulder and the spine. Sural bjang asan and you exhale go down again. Inhale gently rise. Feel the posture. Such a beautiful asan. Your chest fully open. Shoulders are perfect. Creating a space into your lungs for proper respiration. and exhale and your spine is also becoming superiorly flexible so that mastering bjangasan will happen. Inhale three. It's a diaphic breath natural in backward bending asan. Exhale three. Inhale four. No no no sound when you breathe in and breathe out. Exhale four peacefully. Inhale and exhale without no sound. Inhale five. Let us hold for some time and breathe naturally for some time. Try to practice yogic inhalation and exhalation in form of diaphic breathing pranayam. In this posture and those of your senior full yogic breath inhale fill tummy, chest then collar. Exhale empty the collar then chest then tummy. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Let us release. Release your hand as you want. Release your head as you want. And be aware of subtle bhjang as the gentle cobra pose. It is relaxing and creating the right condition in the spine to experience bhjanga asan. Next we will do sel sanan asan gentle balancing pose. Come to saral bh bh bh bh bh bh bh bh bh bhujangasan as its starting position. Keep the feet together. Hands forearms on the floor. If you have back pain or you feel you don't feel strong, you may separate your feet to the same width as your shoulder. Be flexible. Now inhale, come to saral bhujang asan. Toe ball on standing looking feet. Exhale just rise your body up to seal sanen asan. Look at one point. This is the gentle form of sanan asan. Then inhale come to saral bjang asan and exhale let you release the pose again. Inhale come to subtle bhjanga asan. Exhale. Go to settle sanon asan dishi on a point to create sense of balance, steadiness and firmness in the body. Inhale sural bhjang asan. Exhale come to starting pose. Inhale saral bh bh bh bh bh bh bh bh bh bhjang. Exhale. Serenan. Inhale. Ser bjang. Exhale. Relax. We have two more round. Inhale. Soral bjang. Exhale. Solan. [Music] Inhale. Set bjang. Exhale. Relax. One last round. Inhale. Seral bhjang. Exhale. Soral sanan. Inhale. Seral bhjang. Exhale. Down. We will relax in crocodile pose. Makar asan. Rest your cheek on cup of the palm. Keep your feet together or a little apart. That will be your choice. And gently paddle your leg as if your yoga mat is the base of the boat and you let it sway on the water. Just bend your leg one by one. Ease the back muscles and we will be ready for the next practice in a moment. Meu akaren asan. It is a practice to do sideways. To do this practice, rest your head on left hand and turn you sideway. Be aware of space throughout your body from the front down. It should be symmetrical. It means you are proper. If you have neck pain and resting your head on left hand become difficult, you keep your left hand straight and head on left upper hand. Now if you have back pain and raising the leg become difficult, you point your right toe front and you lift only the leg little bit of sideway like this. Or you may turn the toe towards you and raise up. Those of you can't touch the finger to the toe, you will keep right hand on the floor and only raising the leg part. And those of you can touch the finger to the toe, you will keep the right hand in the right side. So you have three option. See which way you will be better. Inhale, raise the leg or just leg or leg and hand both. And exhale, come down. Inhale 2. Exhale 2. Inhale 3. Exhale 3. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale 5. Take it easy. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale 7. Exhale 7. Inhale 8. Exhale 8. Inhale 9. Exhale 9. Inhale 10. Exhale. 10 11 12 13 14 15 and we are done with this side. You may come to macakarasan and then you please change your side. Remember alignment of the body very important key point. So you look down from the elbow down to shoulder, hip, leg and all. You should have the symmetrical space in front of your mat. And if you have back pain, keep right left hand on the floor and lift left hand little bit sideway not too much. Those of you can touch the finger to the toe. You will keep the hand in the side. Turn the ankle towards you. Activate your leg. Ankle activation. Access your hips well and get ready to go. Inhale one. Exhale one. Inhale two. Exhale 2. Inhale 3. Exhale 3. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale 5. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale 7. Exhale 7. Inhale 8. Exhale 8. Inhale 9. Exhale 9. Inhale 10. Exhale 10. Inhale 11. Exhale 11. 12 13 14. Last round. And instead of dropping on the tummy, we will drop ourself on the back. So turn your body to savasan. Now relax just for a while. Bring your feet together. Keep your hand close to the body with palm facing downward. Feel your head shoulder and sitting bone thumb. You're not pressing your tailbone and there is a soft arch in your lower back. It is the sacroiliac nutrition. Turn the ankle fully towards you. You can feel your calf, hamstring stretch, thigh contract, kneecap also. Be aware of this starting pose. Be aware of your breath. It should be diaphic. Keep your hand strong, torso is strong and left leg is strong. Inhale. Right leg to rise. When you rise it, left leg will not deteriorate a degree. And exhale, come down. Damic breathing. We want inhale 2. Exhale to padan asan. Inhale three. Apply januan asan. Kneecap lock to make the leg support to your body. Inhale three. Exhale three. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale 5. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale 7. Exhale 7. Inhale 8. Exhale 8. Inhale 9. Exhale. Nine. Last round. Hold it. Hold just like this. And breathe normal. If you feel hard, hold right hand to the right leg. Still hard? You may hold both hands to the right leg. Or you may relax in savasan for some time. So hold without hand or with one hand or with two hand. Yogic inhalation and exhalation. Dhomic breath. Be aware of the blood circulation in your leg. Blood pressure in your leg. Feeling your back, abdomen. Such a beautiful posture it is. Now this side we have completed. Let's come to savasan for a moment before we start with the left leg. Bring your foot together. Hands are close. Ankle gently towards you. ankle to flex deeply. So that kneecap lock happens and your leg become active and support to your hip, abdomen and back not to strain it. Firm head, hand and right leg. Inhale one. Exhale one. Easy perfection. Inhale 2. Exhale 2. Inhale 3. Exhale 3. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale 5. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale six. Inhale 7. Hold it with one hand, two hand or without hand. Be flexible. Don't have any stiff rule. If you can do without hand, do without hand. If you need hand, use one hand or both hand. And be aware of the quality of the torso. Quality of right leg so important and even quality of left leg. And you can feel the practice enhancing the blood flow, enhancing the drainage in the leg, strengthening core, making your hips flexible and comforting your back and the lower spine. These also prevent lumbar lordosis. And now let us release the leg and relax in savasan. And we will do the next practice pad chakra asan. When you rotate the leg, the structure of the leg should be straight as if you don't have the knee joint at all. and torso and left leg will be firm when we doing the right so that your hip will be safe and back abdomen muscles organ feel good. Bring your feet together. Hands should be close to the body. Elbows straight, palm facing down. Active torso, chest and core. Turn the ankle towards you. Feet together. Lock your kneecap. Janu asan from your left leg. both hand and torso. Right leg is fully straight and in a circle with sitting bone 100% on the floor. Raise your right leg up and down. So the quality of starium stillness and the firmness gently rotate. Still and still. Inhale three. Exhale three. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale 5. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale 7. Exhale 7. Reverse. Now inhale one. Exhale one. Inhale 2. Exhale 2. Inhale 3. Exhale 3. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale 5. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale 7. Exhale. Seven. Relax for a moment in savasan. Reflect back how you did. It's a tricky practice. Looks simple but so many involvement make it look perfect and safe and progressive. Same quality we will manifest when we do the left side. Bring your feet together. Engage the ankle into flexion. Kneecap into lock. calf hamstring is stretch thigh contract hand is close make your leg as one long bone from hip to the ankle just imagine you don't have knee at all that is a science of twist when you rotate knee should not bend so we are ready from hand head and torso right leg and left leg up in a circle inhale exhale your sitting bones should not be going up and down. It should be firm. Apply the torque, the point of rotation perfectly. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Feel and imagine you're supporting your leg, hip joint, abdominal muscles and organs, back and spine. Inhale. Four. Exhale. Four. Inhale. Five. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale 7. Exhale 7. Let us reverse it anticlockwise. Inhale 1. Exhale 1. Inhale 2. Exhale 2. Inhale 3. Exhale 3. Inhale 4. Exhale 4. Inhale 5. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale 7. Exhale 7. Let us rest in savasan and be aware of pad chakra asan. The practice from pavanmtasan to family. Next we will do kandhar asan following a round of kandhar to hold and those of you are senior practitioner bipit karni assan but those choosing biprit karnney it is only for senior and sincere and serious practitioner. If you're not ready, it will have side effects. Bend both your knee. Knee fit. Shoulder gap matches. Try to catch the ankle from the back side. Head shoulder to be firm. Make sure you don't strain your neck. Inhale. Rise your back nicely up. And exhale. Very gently come down. Inhale. Rise. Exhale. Release. Inhale. Three. Exhale. Three. It's a backward bending invert asan. Inhale. Four. Exhale four. Inhale 5. Exhale five. Inhale six. Exhale six. We will hold the last round. Those of you are bipit karnney practitioner. You raise your leg. Roll your back. Create 45° with the torso. Turn the palm up and rest your bum on cup of the hand. That's a briit karnney asan. Those of you are not eligible for it, you will remain in kandharasan. If you can't hold long kandharasan, you will do two round more of holding means total three holding kandharasan. And those of you are bipitani practitioner if you have not done before you can see I can demonstrate for you raising the leg pressing the palm and resting the cup of the hand to support your lower part of the body torso at 45° perpendicular looking leg chest doesn't lock with the chin head neck shoulders are firm and relax you. So either you relax in kandharasan holding one long round or two long round or three short holding rounds. Whichever posture you are in, be aware of your breath. It should be slow, deep, diaphic breath. That should be the breathing pattern. If you're doing theoracic breathing, it's not at all good breathing in the posture. Maybe you're straining to release briki. You have to bend the knee towards the forehead. Place the hand and vertebra by vertebra you have to put the leg spine down and then the feet on the ground and then release. Relax in savasan. Be aware of you after your practices. How you feel? Now prepare to have exit from this posture. Bring your feet together. Hand close to the body. To have exit, raise your right hand up above the head. Bend your left knee and match the left foot with the right knee on and then turn right down. Bring the left hand front. Press the left palm and get up sideways and get ready to stand up. Now we will do the last practice sura namaskar three to five rounds and those of you can't do surya namaskar you will do titk tarasan tyaktarasan and katy chakarasan so please stand up do three to five rounds of surya namaskar or you do tarasan which is like this fit together interlock the hand on the head together. If it bothers then keeps little gap and you inhale you gently stretch. Those of you know surya namaskar please go ahead. Three to five rounds. And if you're not doing that you follow me. Tadasan. Inhale 2 exhale 2. Inhale 3. Exhale 3. Inhale four. Exhale four. Inhale five. Exhale 5. Inhale 6. Exhale 6. Inhale 7. Exhale 7. Inhale 8. Exhale 8. Your eye has to be one pointed. Inhale 9. Exhale 9. Inhale 10. Exhale 10. After tasan you will ease your hand. Maintain the balance and comfort. Separate your leg to two 2 and 1/2 ft apart. And you can do tiryak tarasan. After tarasan, hold the hand. Raise it. Turn the palm up. Make the elbow fully straight. Stretch a bit up like tarasan. Hip down below leg to be firm. Use the west part to bend right. Inhale center. Exhale to the left side. Inhale center. Exhale right two. Inhale center. Exhale left two. Inhale center. Exhale right three. Inhale center. Exhale left three. Inhale center. Exhale right four. Inhale center. Exhale left four. Inhale center. Exhale right five. Inhale center. Exhale left five. Inhale center. Exhale right six. Inhale center. Exhale left six. Inhale center. Last round. Right seven center. left seven center and lower your hand and maintain the same gap for kati chakra asan as it is katy the vest this part will be mobile hip thigh and knees should not move so have very firm leg and don't sake and vibrate your leg otherwise you don't enjoy the practice so firm hip down the leg raise the hand firm hip willow and the arms and twist right. Let the hands to go around right hand try to come to the navl. Inhale center and exhale to the left side. Let you do seven times. Those of you are done with surya namaskar in standing pose close your eyes. If you're done with Surya Namaskar, relax in a standing pose. Those of you are in Surya Namaskar, this is your last round. Those of you are done, close your eyes, remain in a standing pose and relax the body in standing as if you are in a standing savasan. Separate your leg a little. Keep the hand a little sideway and close your eyes and feel you are relaxing as if you are in savasan itself. We are preparing ourself for the pranayam practice in standing pose itself. We will do brahari pranayam and nadi sodhan. [Music] Stabilize your heart, lungs, nervous system. Feel comfort is in the body. Sense of harmony into your pranas and the mind. For that only we do hat yoga. The energy of the body and mind to create into the state of harmony. We are going to sit down now into meditation asan. So please sit down. When you sit down, look at your base, both sitting bone and the knee and tailbone. Don't stuck the fit. You just keep the fit easy. If you feel your knee doesn't go to the floor, you bring one meditation block and you sit on it. The moment height under sitting bone increase, knee goes down and you become naturally upright and straight. So sit in a comfortable siddhasan base without lock. I'm not locking the feet. I try to keep my knee on the floor so that I am seated upright. Rest your hands on the knee. Close your eyes. Be aware of your breath. Make it natural full yogic means when you inhale first feel your tummy then your thoracic area then your collar and when you exhale empty the collar then the chest then the abdomen. Actually you're manuring the entire area of the lungs. Good amount of inhalation will have long and vibrant and rhythmic sound. And the first letter of Sanskrit akara to chant with mouth closed. Teeth should not touch up and down creating vibration from the throat spreading it everywhere in the body. Seven rounds of brahri pranayam. Keeping the eyes closed, fold the forefinger including the thumb, index will be out and plug into the ear. Inhale deeply. [Laughter] Oh, [Music] [Laughter] heat, heat. Heat [Laughter] [Music] up here. [Music] Heat. Heat. Heat. Matthew. [Music] [Music] Heat After seven rounds, maintain your hands on the knee chin mudra. Eyes are closed. Experience the bhab brahri pranayam in you. Bhavation in the nostrils, throat, into the lungs, into the head, into the whole body. The purpose is to improve the circadian rhythm, getting the brain wave into alpha, influencing your pineal gland and also the prediction of nitric oxide in the body which happens because of vibration which boost the immunity. Next we will do nadi sodhan pranayam starting with one is to one and we'll make it 1 is to 1 is to one. Any of the hand you can use two finger at eyebrow center thumb at one nostril ring finger at other little one is not in use. Two finger constant at brahmad to remember where to focus. Close the right nostril. Keep left open. Exhale completely into the left nostril. Keep one or two breath into the left nostril as a launch pad. Your breath should be fully yogic. We will inhale and exhale into seven counts. Exhale completely into the left and prepare to inhale into the left. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Close the left. Open the right. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Right. Inhale. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Left exhale. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. Breath should not have force and sound in the nostril. Left in. Feel breath is going into eyebrow center. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 right exhale. Feel eyebrow centered breath is coming out. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. Right in. Imagine breath entering the eyebrow center. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. Imagine breath is coming out from eyebrow center. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. Right in. Uh, sorry. Left in. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. Right out. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. Right in. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 left out. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. Relax your hand for a moment. If your BP is high, please continue the same way. Otherwise we will hold the breath for seven counts. Those of you are aware of jalander and mulband. You may apply focus will be ibro center throughout. Breath going in breath to hold. Breath to come out of eyebrow center. So bring your hand back. Close the right nostril. Keep the left as the first nostril to inhale. Exhale completely into left. Get ready. Inhale. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. Close both the nostril. Hold breath or hold breath with jalander or whole breath with jal and mul both. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 right out. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Write in 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Kumbak Jalm. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Left exhale. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Let you continue. If you feel suffocated after every round, relax and restart the round. Two more rounds we will do. For the counting, the counting can be done with the ohms also like 1 ohm, 2 ohm, 3 ohm. And just feel how the breath is going into the eyebrow center. While holding, hold the awareness and breath at the eyebrow center. And you exhale. Two fingers are the reminder. That's the point center of the practice. And feel you are creating the balance in the swar. balance in your anus system in your hemispheres and your be aware of the breath yogic inhalation. Peace, comfort and silence. There is no nose sound. There is no run and rush in your breath. That's called purak rachuk. So that the kumbak become better. If you feel you can do more than seven counts, you can. And after completing two rounds, prepare for saut yoga nidra practice. After completing total three round the level two you prepare for lying down before you lie down. Check your phone. Put it in silent mode. No alarms or masses tone to ring. Be aware of your body. Let go unwanted gadgets and if possible metals. And when you lie down, be aware of your head direction, south facing or east facing. If you need head support, use a thin pillow to support your head, neck, and shoulder. If you have back pain, put a pillow under the knee as well. If you feel to cover your body, cover but don't cover your nose. If you cannot control the light of surrounding, take a piece of clo and put it gently on the eyes. Yog nidra sadhana is done in savasan. Even it can be done in sitting but here we will do in savasan. Be aware of your body on the floor. Legs hip width apart or slightly more. Both feet flop to the sides and don't hold any kind of tightness or tension in the body. Be aware of your hands. Acha. Acha means the distance between tip of index uh little finger and thumb 6 to 9 in. palm facing up. Those are practicing from home. And if you have marveled or vetrified floor, avoid touching the floor directly. Adjust the body. Make your clothes comfortable in case using covering. Make your head and back support comfortable and ground completely to the floor. Settling down in savasan. Savasan belongs to haty yog asas. Savasan also belongs to raj yog in which you hold it for long duration to experience the pratihar practices. Savasan is also called vishram asan to let go the fatigue tightness tightness from the body. Experience harmony into your senses and mind and a state of internalization to establish in a state of yoga nidra. The state in which you are neither sleeping nor awake. You are in middle of the experience of wakeful and sleep. Jagrat and susupti become natural to the floor as if you are a small baby sleeping on the lap of mother earth. Don't put effort. Let the gravity to hold you in her lap and step into a state of stillness and also maintain the state of yoga nidra being aware of the middle of sleep and wakeful and become aware of your whole body. Become aware of your whole body in a flash. Every time you're aware of the body, manifest sense of deep relaxation, harmony, and comfort into it. Every time you're aware of yourself, imagine you're becoming better relaxed than before. While you're witnessing the relaxation to the body at the same time also become aware of sounds which is happening all around you at the present. Some of the sounds happening very close to you. Some of the sounds are happening very far. Some of them are melodious, some of them are harsh and loud. But to all sound create the state of samatwam. Neither feel good nor feel bad. Be in a state of center. Samatwa. Neither keep any rag nor keep any dw with any sound. Become silent observer of the sound. Sakchi. Now let go the awareness of the sounds. Maintain awareness of the body. Witness release of the fatigue. Comfort and calmness in your senses and mind. State of internalization. The state of yoga nidra. And in this beautiful experience, recall the salp of your life. the cheerest wish that you want to achieve in your life. But those not yet decided the salp as a symbol of sal mentally chant mantra three times and after the repetition of the salpa prepare for a yatra. Prepare for a journey. The rotation of awareness guiding your awareness to named part of the body. I'll chant name of part of the body. Be aware of it. Chant the name of that body part and manifest relaxation, healing and purity into them. The practice of nyas. Become aware of right side of the body. Right hand, right hand, thumb. Be aware of right hand thumb. Mentally chant right hand thumb create relaxation purity and healing into it. And similar to that right index finger, middle finger, ring finger, little finger, thumb and fore fingers together, palm of right hand, back of right hand, right wrist, forearm, elbow, upper arm, right shoulder, arm armpit, right side rib cage, right ve hip joint, thigh, knee, cuff muscles and bone, right ankle, top of right foot, right big toe, second toe, third toe, fourth toe, fifth toe, five toes together and awareness An experience of the whole right side. Be aware of right side of the body. Relaxation, rejuvenation and sudata. Purity to experience. Similar experience to left side. Be aware of your body at the left, left hand, left and thumb, index finger, middle finger, ring finger, little finger, thumb and fore fingers together, palm of left hand, back of left hand, left wrist, forearm, elbow, upper arm, left shoulder, Armpit, left side rib cage, left vest, hip joint, thigh, knee, calf muscles in sinbone, left ankle, top of left foot, left big toe, second toe, third toe, fourth toe, fifth toe, five toes together and your whole left side of the body. Experience relaxation, rejuvenation and purity suda in your left side of the body. Now awareness to go behind and experience your body from the back. Be aware of soles of your feet, both heels, back of your ankles. Be aware of the calf, back of the knee, thigh, buttocks, lower back, upper back, shoulder blades, back of your hands. Feel your neck, back of your head. Come to the crown. And now awareness comes to the forehead. Become aware of your forehead. Become aware of your forehead. Right temple which is the right side of the head. Left temple. Right eyebrow. Left eyebrow. Eyebrow center. Right eye. Left eye. Right ear. Left ear. Right cheek. Left cheek. Right nostril. Left nostril. Top of the nose. Bridge of the nose. Upper lip, lower lip, upper teeth, lower teeth, tongue, inside of your whole mouth, chin, neck and throat. Be aware of your both collars, both hands. Be aware of your chest. Right side, left side, the center of the chest and the whole area of your chest. Become aware of your abdomen. Right side, left side, upper abdomen, lower abdomen, navl and the whole area of the abdomen, right and left leg together, right and left hand together, every part of the face together, every front parts of the body, every back parts of the body. Finally awareness of the whole body. Become aware, become relaxed, become rejuvenated, become pure suda physically, mentally and pranically. And in this state of experience, become aware of your breath. Do not change the breath. Do not control the breath. Experience the natural existence of breath in the body that makes you realize the life and importance of relaxation in this body. Feel the breath in your body. It seems wherever you feel body you find your breath the true friend is there. Every time you inhale, there's a feeling of expansion in the whole body. And every time you exhale, there is a sense of relaxation and also soft contraction as if the whole being of yours is part of natural respiration. Be aware of it. And as you're aware of your body and breath together to have that continuity into that awareness, use a support breath counting from 27 back to 1. Inhale, exhale 27. Inhale. Exhale. 26. Inhale. Exhale. 25. Inhale. Exhale. 24. Inhale. Exhale. 23. And so on. Remember a key point at the moment. Mistake in count or you finish the count. Let you restart it. And now let go the experience of breathing count. Let go the awareness of the breath. Maintain awareness of the whole body. Be aware of your body. Relaxing in yoga nidra. You're aware of this experience of relaxation and harmony. And in this state of experience, once again remember your salpa. The salpa the same statement you chanted in the beginning of yoga nidra mentally chanted three times with total faith devotion and determination and after the repetition of the salpa prepare to externalize be aware of the surrounding environment. Be aware of the present time and space. Be aware of presence of sensorial inputs around people around colors, objects, images, sounds. Be aware of your own body position and direction. Feel your body touch with the floor. Weight of the body against the floor. Colors in your clothes, your leg, trunk, hands, and your head. Externalize the mind. Externalize the mind. Be aware of your once again the breath in the body and begin to take long and deep breath in and out. Long breath in and out. And begin to move your toes, your feet, your fingers, your head to the sides as if you're waking up. Do subtitadasan. Just stretch nicely and do a round of sa udraasan. Interlock your finger under the head and let you twist couple of times right and left. Let you rub the palm and put it on your closed eyes and prepare to wake up. Sit down and we will do the last part of the practice dyan meditation. We started with mantra yog then we did assan pranayam and experience of yoga nidra. Now we will do meditation. When you sit down in meditation face east or north side and use the supports so that sitting posture will be easy and convenient for you. If you need wall support, you may go and sit with the wall. Those of you are senior practitioner, your mudra of the hand will be or chinmera is done. Tip of index finger at base line of the thumb and thumb presses thumb uh index uh thumb middle and ring finger tip will touch little is free and hand like this. If you want chinmai mudra, touch the tip of thumb and index finger. And then the three finger which is straight, curl it in and touch the middle of the palm. And if you feel you can't hold either of them, use chin mudra and rest it on the knee. So let you sit in a comfortable assan dhan assan which is the culmination of haty yog asan which is dynamic in nature. We do one assan after another asan like that. But when we do raj yog asan it is a single assan and throughout the journey of dhan you maintain the state of starium and suka in it and your hand mudra which creates the link between your aname manome and praname kosa with the tool of asan and hust mudra. Prepare to step into state of dhan. Very gently close your eyes and mouth. With eyes closed once again create the vision of dharpan mirror and very clearly see the reflection of your body in that mirror. Be aware of your asan hand mudra other parts of the body and body balance both side. The first stage of Dana is the kayatheium. The kaya represented by the body and also mind also senses also pranas. Achieve first level of kayathearium. [Music] Let body to become still as you're aware of your body in the mirror of the mind. Experience right foot. Make it relaxed and steady. Left foot. The whole right leg and the left leg. Experience stium and sukum. Be aware of back muscles. Meudan the spine. Relax the back muscles in the spine and experience a state of stillness here. Be aware of your both hands on the knee supporting the entire posture. Be aware of your abdomen, chest, collars. Be aware of your head and be aware of your whole body. You may begin to experience many sensations of discomfort in the body. Don't lose a state of stereium. Rather meditate on these sensations. Be aware of its origin. Is it physical in nature or mental in nature or pranic in nature? [Music] Whichever nature these sensations are in, let it go. Meditate on it and dissolve it. Go into the state of li. dissolving dissolve every discomfortable sensations and merge into something higher and better which is your breath. Now switch your awareness from body to your breath and be aware of your breath. Flow at your nostrils. There are two nostrils. Be aware of your two nostril and try to see the nostril from the eyebrow center. It creates a tronee triangle and imagine you breathe in this triangle. When you inhale the two line of breath enter the nostril and these two line merge with each other at the eyebrow center. And when you exhale from the eyebrow center two line of breath diverse and come out the nostril. Establish yourself in trione breathing and witness how each breath converts and diverse from brumadya the triricuti thy bro center. Every breath is bringing you close to brahmadya and your awareness and breath merge now into eyebrow center completely. Feel that recon breath awareness all merged into bumadya. From the grass you're merging into subtle, merging into more subtle. The flow of lii you feel yourself one pointed at your bruhumada eyebrow center. This point is the doorway to chidakas. the mental field to experience the total mind. From eyebrow center, step inside your head as if you are stepping into a dark room or a dark cave or a temple. From eyebrow center, step inside your head. See your head. The forehead forms the front wall. Side of the head forms side wall. Back of the head forms the back wall. Crown create the ceiling of the trample. And at level of ear and eye the floor. Imagine you're sitted into dhyan in this temple and experience your chidakas to experience silence, stillness and peace of mind. Your body is still and relaxed and your mind follow the same stillness, silence and peace. And carry these two state of experience of body and mind into your heart. Pride from the head. Now bring your awareness into your chest cavity. The space experience within your rib cage. The space that you experience between your diaphragm and the shoulder, between the sternum and the spine. Be aware of your rib cage. And as you're aware of your rib cage and space within it, also be aware of natural and spontaneous rhythm of the breath. You may realize at natural inhalation there is a sense of expansion in the chest region [Music] and at exhalation there is a sense of relaxation in this chest cavity the heart space raaya experience The natural spontaneous breath in your heart space. Head space deals with mind and its modifications. Heart space deals with feelings, emotions and sentiment. Experience your heart space and your breath and experience silence, stillness, peace, tranquility and also light in your heart. In your heart space, become aware of a tiny flame of light. It is a flame of golden light. It is tiny, clear, and bright. Intensify the awareness of this golden light within the region of the heart. And now imagine as you inhale that little tiny flame expand, grows big, becomes brighter. And as you exhale, it comes back to its original size, shape, and form. See the expansion of the flame of light as it becoming bigger, brighter. It is enlarging as you breathe in and coming back to its normal size as you breathe out. With each inhalation, the glow of flame is becoming stronger, brighter, and momentarily filling the entire heart space with the light. And with each exhalation the expensive light within the chest region reduce come back to tiny flame. Every breath is empowering the light of your heart and it is not only filling your heart space but your whole body from within. And also you can feel the aura of this light around you filling the entire space where you are seated and touching every heart around. Peace, silence, tranquility to experience bringing forth the quality of the heart to experience in true sense state of samata. Come as you're aware of your heart space and the joti here let you become aware of any existing feeling or emotion. Be aware of manifestation of any feeling or emotion in your heart. Be aware of the feeling which is there right now into your heart. and give color to the existing feeling. If you feel angry, feel the color of that anger into heart space maybe in form of red. If you're not feeling good at body, mind, body or health, see it's responding color pale, yellow. If you feel health, peace of mind, bliss, maybe give blue color like that. Be aware of the feeling which is existing right now into the heart and give a color to it. Now in your heart manifest the feeling of intense love. Manifest the feeling of intense love into your heart. Your love to someone, to a place, to a object, to your God, to your deity. Bring forth the feeling of intense love into your heart. You may give color to this feeling also. Now create the feeling of silence and peace into your heart. Create the feeling and make it emotion of silence, peace and stillness in your heart. And in your heart space now create the feeling of intense anxiety sometime that you experience. Create the feeling of anxiety in your heart space. Maintain a state of samatwam and give a color to it. and convert that feeling of anxiety once again into silence peace within your heart. Now create the feeling of well-being, good business to everyone for every being for every form of life. Create them feeling of good wishes to all and let the light of your heart to spread all around you in the space surrounding country where you are. wishes for well-being for everyone, for every heart that is luminous with the light. And with that feeling we will chant mantra seven times following Santi mantras form chanting breathe in. Oh. [Music] Oh. [Music] Oh. Oh. [Music] Oh. [Music] Oh. [Music] Oh. Oh. [Music] Oh. Oh, [Music] There may sust [Music] S shant suralamu. [Music] Oh tri [Music] shanty shanty shanty. Hurry. Haram tasut we'll do palming and with this we end the today's session wish you happy international yoga day to all of you and keep practicing yoga every day har Happy yoga