Yoga helps us find that balance one breath at a time. It heals, strengthens, and grounds us in the present moment. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome you to the 10th anniversary of the International Day of Yoga. I extend a very warm welcome to the distinguished heads of missions and thank you for joining us this morning. Excellencies, we are honored to have you amongst us. And we have in our midst now the honorable External Affairs Minister of India, Dr. S. Jaishankar. We extend a very hearty welcome to the honorable Minister on this occasion. Ladies and gentlemen, excellencies, distinguished guests, we are at the 10th anniversary of the International Day of Yoga, and this celebration is organized by the Ministry of External Affairs here at the historic G20 tree plantation area in Nehru Park, New Delhi. Yoga, a Sanskrit word which means to unite or to connect, is more than just a practice. It is India's gift to global well-being, symbolizing the harmony of body, mind, and spirit. And today, as we mark a decade of this universal celebration, we do so with friends and diplomatic missions from across the world. This year, we celebrate under the theme Yoga for one earth, one health, a powerful call to care not only for ourselves, but for each other and the planet we share. From nurturing individual well-being to inspiring systemic change, India's evolving yoga landscape is shaping a healthier, more harmonious world. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also honored to have amidst us three distinguished yoga practitioners from Argentina, Singapore, and Kazakhstan. They are here as part of a 17-member delegation from 15 countries to participate in the Yog Bandhan initiative to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the International Day of Yoga. It is inspiring that the number of yoga events that are being held worldwide has doubled this year from last year. And this time there are more than 2,000 yoga events held in over 1,300 locations in 191 countries. 191 countries, ladies and gentlemen, of the world. So, every country in the world is celebrating the International Day of Yoga with us. And now, we begin with a common yoga protocol session, 45 minutes of mindfulness, movement, and inner harmony. May this morning energize your day and deepen our collective commitment to health and balance. I now invite our yoga instructor to please lead us. Thank you, ma'am. Namaste. Very good morning to all of you. And a very happy International Day of Yoga. I welcome you all in the common yoga protocol session. So, without any further delay, let us begin the session. I request everyone to please sit down at your place. Sit in any comfortable posture known as Sukhasana with the back and neck straight. We begin the session with prayer. Join your palms in Namaskar Mudra. Bring your hands close to the chest. Gently close your eyes. May you move in harmony. May you speak in unison. Let our mind be equanimous like in the beginning. Let the divinity manifest in all our endeavors. With this power we'll chant the prayer. Gently rub your palms. Make cup of your hands. Keep it on your eyes. Gently remove and open your eyes. Now we are moving toward the loosening practices. The loosening practices help to increase microcirculation. And these practices we will do in standing position. So I request everyone to please stand up at your place. Stand with the feet 2 to 3 in just apart. Keep the hands straight beside the body. Samasthiti. Now keep your hands on the waist with the fingers in front, thumb at the back. Now inhale and slowly take your neck back. Exhale and slowly bend forward. Try to touch the chin to the chest. Once again, we'll repeat this practice. Inhale, take your neck back. Exhale and take your neck back. Exhale, bend forward. Inhale, come back to the starting position. Now, we'll bend our neck to the right side. Exhale and slowly bend your neck toward the right side. Try to bring your ear close to the shoulder joint. Inhale, come back to the center. Exhale, bend toward the left side. Inhale, come back to the center. Repeat this practice two more times. Exhale, bend your neck toward the right side. Inhale, come back to the center. Exhale, toward the left side. Inhale, come back to the center. Now, we are turning the neck toward the side. Exhale and slowly move your neck toward the right side. Inhale, come back to the center. Exhale toward the left side. Inhale, come back to the center. Repeat this practice two more times. Exhale, turn your neck toward the right side. Inhale, come back to the center. Exhale, turn your neck toward the left side. Inhale, come back to the center. Exhale toward the right side. Inhale, come back to the center. Exhale toward the left side. Inhale, come back to the center. Bring your arms to the side. Close your eyes and feel the impact of the practice. Open your eyes. Now we are moving toward the next practice. Shoulder movement. Inhale, lift your arms from the sides with the palms facing outside. Exhale and slowly bring your arms down. Inhale, lift your arms up. Exhale. Bring your arms down. Inhale. Lift your arms up. Exhale. Bring your arms down. Now, we are doing the shoulder rotation. Inhale. Lift your arms up to the level of shoulder. Turn your wrist upward. Bend your elbow and place the fingers on the respective shoulder joint. Bring the elbows in in front. Inhale. And take your elbows up. Take them back. Exhale. Bring them down, then in front. Bring the elbows in front. We'll repeat this practice two more times. Inhale up. Exhale down. Join the elbows in front. Inhale up. Exhale down. Join the elbows in front. We'll repeat this practice in the opposite direction. Exhale down. Inhale up. Join the elbows in front. Repeat this practice two more times. Exhale down. Inhale up. Exhale down. Inhale up. Now, straighten your arms from the sides. Exhale, bring your arms down. Close your eyes and feel the impact of the practice. Now, moving to the next practice movement. Stand up with the feet shoulder width apart. Inhale and slowly lift your arms up to the level of shoulder with the palms facing each other. Exhale and twist your spine toward the right side keeping the right arm straight, left elbow bent. Look at the thumb of the right hand. Inhale, come back to the center. Exhale toward the left side. Inhale, come back to the center. We'll repeat this practice two more times. Exhale toward the right side. Inhale, come back to the center. Exhale toward the left side. Inhale, come back to the center. Exhale toward the right side. Inhale, come back to the center. Exhale toward the left side. Inhale, come back to the center. Exhale, bring your arms down to the side, close your eyes, and feel the impact of the practice. Open your eyes. The next practice is knee movement. If someone is suffering from osteoarthritis of the knee joint, they should avoid this practice. Inhale, lift your arms up to the level of shoulder with the palms facing down. Exhale, and slowly bend down. Come in the semi-squat position. Imagine there is a chair behind you, and sit on that imaginary chair. Inhale, and slowly come up. Repeat this practice two more times. Exhale, and slowly bend down. Inhale, come up. Exhale, and slowly bend down. Keeping the back straight. Inhale, and slowly come up. Bring your arms down. Close your eyes, and feel the impact of the practice. Now, open your eyes. We are moving toward the asana practice. Join your feet together. Or you can stand with the feet 2 in apart. Now, inhale, and slowly lift your arms to the level of shoulder with the palms facing each other. Interlace your fingers. Turn your wrist outward. Inhale, slowly lift your arms up with the elbows attached to the ears. Stretch your spine. Now, slowly lift your heels up, and stand up on your toes. Maintain the posture with normal breathing. Tadasana stretches your spine, improves flexibility of the calf muscles. Exhale, slowly bring your heels down, and the arms down from the side. The next practice is Ardha Chakrasana. The word Ardha means half. Chakra means wheel. The body assumes the position of half wheel in this posture. If someone is suffering from vertigo or severe back issues, hypertension, they can avoid this practice. This practice is very beneficial for strengthening the back muscles and improving the lungs capacity. Stand straight with the feet shoulder width apart to make it comfortable. Place your hands at the side of the waist with the fingers in front, thumb at the back. Take your elbows and shoulders back. Slightly pull them back. Now, inhale and slowly bend backward. Take the neck back, chest back. Bend from the lower back, the lumbosacral region. Make Exhale and slowly come back. Bring your arms down and feel the impact of the practice. You can also close your eyes. Open your eyes. The next practice we are doing Padahastasana. For this, I request everyone to please join your legs together. Bring your arms in front at the front of your thighs. Inhale, lift your arms up, stretch up. Stretch up your spine. If someone is suffering from hypertension, severe back issue, please avoid the practice. Exhale and slowly bend down. Slowly keeping the back straight, try to bring your hands at the side of the feet or you can catch your ankle and try to bring your head close to Maintain the posture with normal breathing. Padahastasana is very good for making the spine flexible, improves digestion. Inhale and slowly come up by stretching your spine upward. Exhale, bring your arms down from the side. Now we are moving toward the sitting posture. I request everyone to sit down in the long sitting position. With the legs straight in front. Hands at the side of the buttocks with the fingers pointing forward. Keeping the back straight, this is a starting position. Known Dandasana. We are moving toward Bhadrasana. For Bhadrasana, if someone is suffering from knee problem, they should avoid this practice, like osteoarthritis of the knees or any knee injuries. The word Bhadra means auspicious. This practice is very good for strengthening the pelvic region and very good for females, specially. Bend both the knees. Join the soles of the feet together. Interlace your fingers. Catch your toes. Bring your heels close to the perineum region. Keeping the back straight, close your eyes. Maintain the posture with normal breathing. You can close your eyes. Exhale and slowly come back. Release your hands, straighten your legs. Relax. Now we are moving toward the next practice, Vajrasana. This is considered as one of the meditative posture. This practice is very good for improving your digestion. If anyone is suffering from knee problem or ankle injuries, they should avoid this practice or do with with caution. Now, take your hands to the side. Bend both the knees. Join your big toes, and the heels apart. Keep the knees together. Place your hands on the thighs. Close your eyes. Maintain the posture with normal breathing. This practice also strengthens the thigh and calf muscles. Relax. Now we are moving toward the next practice. Please open your eyes. From the same position, I request everyone to stand up on your knees, come in the kneeling position. We'll be doing ardha ushtrasana, the half camel pose. In the final version of this asana, the body resembles the hump of a camel. This practice is very beneficial for constipation, for strengthening the back muscles, and improving the lungs capacity. Now, place the hands on the hips with the fingers pointing downward. Keeping the elbows and shoulder parallel, taking the elbows and shoulders back, inhale and slowly bend backward. Keeping the thighs perpendicular to the ground. Maintain the posture with normal breathing. Exhale and slowly come back and sit in vajrasana again. Close your eyes and feel the impact of the practices. Next, we'll be doing the counter pose, shashakasana. The word shashak means moon. And also rabbit. In this posture, the body will resemble a rabbit. This practice is particularly beneficial for anger management, stress management. Spread your knees and thighs wide apart. Now, bring your hands between the knees. Exhale and slowly bend forward, lowering the chest down, chin down, or forehead down. Close your eyes. Maintain the posture with normal breathing. Inhale and slowly come back. Take your hands back. Lift your torso up. Place your hands on the knees. Close your eyes and feel the impact of the practice. Next practice, Uttana Mandukasana. The word Uttana means upright and Manduka means frog. This practice is particularly beneficial for neck pain and strengthening the neck and shoulder muscles, improves the lungs capacity. If you are having knee problem, you can do this practice in Sukhasana in any comfortable position. Inhale and slowly lift your arms up. Exhale, bend your right elbow, place the right hand at the back of the left shoulder, and left hand at the back of the right. Keeping the back and neck straight, maintain the posture with normal breathing. Inhale and slowly straighten your arms up. Exhale, bring your hands down on the knees again. Now, sit in Vajrasana again. And slowly straighten your legs. We are doing Vakrasana, the twisting pose. So, sit with the extended legs together, hands by the side of the body. Palms resting on the mat. Now, slowly bend your right knee. Place your right foot at the side of the left knee. Take the right hand back. Inhale. Now, take the left hand back. Ladies and gentlemen, my apologies to intervene. Uh we'll take a very slight, very brief mindful pause since the honorable Prime Minister is live from Visakhapatnam addressing Uh so, I'm going to request you to please take this very short break and then we will continue with the protocol, the yoga protocol. So, the honorable Prime Minister of India leads the International Day of Yoga celebrations from Vizag, Andhra Pradesh. A monumental gathering joined by over 20 million participants in a historic celebration of health, unity, and spiritual enlightenment. Our many better by all the way now. I have some good news for you. This is all we need but I guess I'll be local. Oh. International yoga day key the hot the hot Sub camera night I Yanni bar Who are visual It gets June call 8 7 Yoko Rara hair Yoko seed salad after water hair Jordana Are you taking a super hair Because you gonna Who are visual Jordan hair Maybe take a bus at night Yoko Yatra the big town The whole coach yard after Bouldin The sale to roster may have a proposal car The kiss June call And the last year you do with your money that may lay Or stop Come say come say my man Dunya gay 175 days I'm already stopped talking credit with you I get to do near me I see a good job guy I saw some other tongue Some other good night near hair Yes sir I brought style camera by me car The man of talking ballet guy Dunya some other guy asked her I got a cell phone I'm big hair Yo off the movie brother man I got a logo key to one I need a car It's so much you got it What do you got to have I'm a big town I'm a big town selfie I'm a big man Yo sister party man I got a new I'm going to take my yoga party man I got a new movie selfie Yo Olympia man party with the man I got a selfie I need a new movie selfie I got a new movie selfie party with the man selfie party with the man I got a selfie I got a new movie selfie party with the man selfie party with the man I got a new movie selfie party with the man selfie party with the man selfie party with the man I got a new movie selfie party with the man selfie party with the man selfie party with the man I got a new movie selfie party with the man selfie I got a new movie selfie party with the man selfie party with the man selfie party with the man Yo I got a new movie selfie party with the man selfie I got a new movie I got a new movie selfie party with the man selfie Yo I got a new movie selfie party with the man selfie I got a new movie selfie party with the man I got a new movie selfie party with the man selfie I got a new movie selfie party with the man selfie party with the man selfie party with the man I got a new Yes. I make I make but I care. I met all these watch your movie going on. Yes, I'm sorry. What? This is my car say. So my magic stuff get out of here later so far. I look at the joke on you have. What's going on the money get ripped my dick not tight. Stop your. When you go back again and again. Can you go on up your and say? Do you? Jada. Judy. Public participation key. Spirit. You. It's hard to come up here and have fun. Jump gentle could I get back up? Get the moving go home lately. You see let's go on the lady. Those lucky property say I'm a. Call your local native after. Gentle gentle key is a bad each other. Or after prayer. Yeah, it's all the way. How to measure all right. Friends. The theme of this year's International Day of Yoga. Is yoga. For one hour. One health. This thing looks reflect. A deep truth. The health of every entity on earth. Is interconnected. Human well-being depends that grows our food on the rivers that gives us water ecosystems on the plant plants that nourish us. Yoga awakens us to this interconnectedness. Yoga leads us on a journey towards oneness with the world. It teaches us that we are not isolated just but of nature. Initially we learn to take good care of our own health and wellness. Our care and concern extend to our environment society and planet. Yoga is a great personal discipline. At the same time a system that takes us from me to me to we guide our way. Our key ultimate goal the victory of humanity over conflict. Some of these thoughts are there. The key fully amount of that heat water. Our key sounds pretty amazing. It's got to be there. Yummy. So we got to tell you on here in mirror cut the stuff here. May say Seva. Samaritan. Or so. Yeah, he sought. Samajik Samaras taco Barajas. Satyu. Durban to say. Kissing that kiss it down say. Good night. Get the name. I feel that brother he had. As to me. You will get a home aid. Sean 2015 LT. Yoga. It's a pause button. That humanity needs. To breathe. To balance. To become whole again. Maybe so somebody say. I have to get it is so. My heart is full of the park. It's a good record. Let this yoga day mark. The beginning. Of. Yoga for humanity. To find home. Where inner peace becomes. Global policy. The higher you. The personal practice not a hit. But he. Global partnership come at him but he. The higher days. I have some much. You will go to human say you are looking at the ticket. It's so bad. The higher home milk up. It's Sean. Something to eat. Or something. this will go get today the higher you this will go that girl says I love or the now says I love that girl lady that you this will make you get the third killing I don't you get the science goal I don't need research say I don't need something that girl I have they say but I don't need medical something that girl I have you got research make you take you get the vagina that girl I don't need you get the vagina that girl I have something that girl I have you have a prayer say I'm this medical I don't need something that girl I have something that girl I have you got something that girl I have evidence based therapy it is something that believe I am something that girl I have about that girl I have something that girl I have I am something that girl I have something that girl something that girl I have you got something that cardiac or neurological disorders that girl I have I don't need something that girl I have I don't need something that girl I have I don't need something that girl I something that girl I have something that girl I have something that girl I have something that girl I have you got something that girl I have something that girl I have something that girl I have something that girl digital technology that girl I have it is something that girl I have something that girl you got portal I don't need you got something that girl I have something that girl I have something that girl that girl I have something that girl I have something that girl I have something that girl I have I don't need something that girl I have something that girl it is something that girl I have something that girl I I would have more than that. You beat the cat I had. You got that together that brother had. That you I'm sorry John Cena. I He'll in India. Come on to be off in your make up a popular for a hot. But I don't you can be healing car. Best destination but I don't have that. You get the baby but it will be God. But it will be had. You okay there? Common yoga protocol but I got to get out. You got certification board game. Sorry to lock the attic train volunteers. Got it except for these money that brought the song star. Our medical college of May. Does then got your modules? I think I need prayer. A holistic ecosystem that I got. I'm already doing I just want to have a good amount of beer. What I train your teacher that I got to get out of here. I'm going to have a party logo. Go. But I don't get this wellness ecosystem got by the way. It's really the same. Eat I use visa to get out of here. That feel I don't know what you want but man. Obesity key that I would be thirsty. So we got down after the camera down. But I don't see obesity. What do you do you get the talent I don't keep out maybe is Bobby Starkey is the open a compound man 10% oil come get it got talent be sure to get out make up here this was your say dunya burger logo call is talent to make a hard on car talk open a car name a cassette home come say come 10% oil consumption come curry is Kelly Jaguar planning app oil keep up at come come unhealthy diet say but you know are you going to you better fit this game that you would be that you are you I'm so milk her you're going to eat dinner and Dolan banana it has a Dolan you'll be still go something swat are some rustic or leisure John Harvey at the think he should walk you'll say curry or do you want me some tool and buy John Harvey some of us you're going to say to day or talent say milk to her John you're going to man of the core a suit to my pillow naked man to man or John yoga for one hour one health a basic song open Jai a bad career under the net to talk And I get And I get And I get And I get And I get And I get And I get And I get And I get And I get And I get I request honorable ministers, honorable prime minister, honorable chief minister, and all the dignitaries on the dais and more head for the yoga session. With that, ladies and gentlemen, may I request you to please rise for the national we do have the yoga session that we have to continue first. So, we've got maybe 10 15 minutes if that's all right. So, we will continue with the common protocol and then we will begin with the national anthem. So, after the enlightening speech by honorable prime minister, sir, let's continue with our yoga session. So, we are doing vakrasana. Sit in the long sitting position with the legs straight. Hands at the side of the body. We are doing from the left side first. Bend the left knee. Place the left foot close to the right knee. Take the left hand back close to the body with the fingers pointing opposite to the body. Inhale. Lift the right arm Cross the left knee. Try to catch the big toe of the left foot. Or you can grab your thigh. You can place your palms at the side of the left foot if you're enough flexible. Twist your spine back. Look at the left side. The shoulders should be in one line. Maintain the posture with normal breathing. Vakrasana improves flexibility of the spine and it's very good for metabolic disorders like diabetes mellitus. Inhale and slowly come back. Take the hand back, neck back. Back and back. Straighten your legs. We'll repeat this practice other side. Now bend the right knee. Place the right foot close to the left knee. Now take the right hand back. Lift the left arm. Inhale. Exhale. And cross the right knee. Catch the ankle or the big toe of the right foot. Twist your spine and look back toward the right side. Maintain the posture with normal with normal breathing. Inhale and slowly come back. Take the neck back. Back and Straighten your arm, straighten your leg, and relax in vishramasana. Legs apart, hands at the back, neck back, close your eyes, and feel the impact of the practice. Slowly come back. Take the legs straight, neck back to the position. This is the prone postures here. So, I request every down everyone to lie down on your stomach. With the legs apart, heels inside, toes outside. One on on Place your head on the hands. Turn your head toward the right or the left side. Close your eyes and maintain the posture with normal breathing. Makarasana is a very good posture for relaxation. of back problems. Good for asthmatic patients. Slowly come back. Now, straighten your neck, join your legs together. Take your arms in front. We're moving toward the next posture. Bhujangasana. The word bhujang means cobra. This practice is very good for strengthening the back pain, the back muscles, improving the back pain, and for improving the lungs capacity. If you are suffering from high BP, please avoid this practice. Now, bend both the elbows, place your hands close to the chest. With the elbows attached to the body, inhale, slowly lift your neck, shoulder, and chest up. Lift the body above the navel, and maintain the posture with normal breathing. Exhale, and slowly come down, and relax in Makarasana again, the crocodile pose with the legs apart. Now we are moving toward the supine postures. I request everyone to lie down on your back. Join your legs together. Arms by the side of the body with the palms facing the mat. Doing setu bandhasana, the bridge pose. Very good for strengthening the back muscles and the pelvic floor muscles. Also very good for your thyroid gland. Bend both the knees together with the feet on the mat. Your knees and feet should be hip width apart. Bring your heels close to the buttocks. Try to catch the ankles with your hand. If you are not able to, you can simply place your hands on the mat. Now, inhale and slowly lift your buttocks and spine off the floor. Maintain the posture with normal breathing. Exhale and slowly come down. Relax. Feel the impact of the practice. Straighten your legs and relax. Next practice we'll be doing ardha halasana, the half plow posture. This practice is very good for constipation and beneficial for hypertensive patients. Join your legs together, arms by the side of the body with the palms facing mat. Inhale, lift both the legs up to 90°. Maintain the posture with normal breathing. If you're having back issues, you can do with single leg. Exhale and slowly with abdominal control. Relax. Feel the impact of the practice. Next practice we'll be doing Pawanmuktasana, the wind releasing posture. It is a excellent posture in yoga therapy for various ailments like gas, acidity, constipation, relaxing the back muscles. Join your legs together again. Arms by the side of the body, palms facing mat. Now, slowly bend both the knees together. Bring your knees close to the chest. Interlace your fingers, catch your shins. If you're having neck pain or neck issues, avoid lifting the neck. Exhale. Lift your neck. Try to bring the nose between the knees. Maintain the posture with normal breathing. The knees should be close to the chest. Inhale, lower your head down. Exhale. Release your legs down. We'll be doing the last posture. Shavasana. Last but not the least. With the legs apart, arms by the side, palms face up. Close your eyes. Don't move the body. Observe your breathing. When you're inhaling, feel the rising of the abdomen. When you're exhaling, feel the abdomen sinking towards the spine. With each inhalation, energies is entering in inside your body. With each exhalation, you're getting free of all your tensions and worries. Your feet are slowly getting relaxed. Your leg muscles, your knee joints, your thighs and buttocks are slowly getting relaxed. Be aware of your hands. Your your fingers, your palms, your wrist joint. They are slowly getting relaxed. Your arms, your elbow joint, your shoulder joint, the muscles surrounding the shoulder joint, they are slowly getting relaxed. Your back muscles, your abdominal, your chest muscles are slowly getting relaxed. Your neck muscles are slowly getting relaxed. Your facial muscles are slowly getting relaxed. Your whole body is completely relaxed. Now, slowly move your fingers and your toes gently. Turn toward your right or the left side. And be there for some time. Now, please sit down at your place. Sit in any comfortable posture. We are moving towards the pranayama practice. We'll be doing Nadi Shodhana Pranayama. This practice purifies all the energy channels in your body. Sit with a back and neck straight. Make Gyan Mudra from your left hand, joining the tip of the thumb with the index finger, keeping the other three fingers straight. Place the hand on the knee joint. And make the pranayama mudra from the right hand. Bending the middle and the index finger. Keeping these at the root of the thumb. Keeping the thumb, ring, and little finger straight. This is our nasika mudra we'll be doing pranayama with. Now, gently close your eyes. And close the right nostril with the help of the thumb. Inhale slowly through the left nostril. Close the left nostril. Open the right nostril. And exhale through the right nostril. Inhale through the same right nostril. Then close the right nostril. And exhale through the left nostril. Repeat this practice four more times. Keeping the back and neck straight. With a smiling face. Long, deep, slow breath going inside the the and leaving the body. Nadi shodhana pranayama purifies all the energy channels. It balances your nervous system. Slowly come back after completing the rounds. Make Jana mudra from the right hand also and place the hand on the knee joint. Open your eyes. We are moving toward the next practice. Sheetali pranayama For this pranayama, we roll the tongue out, make a tube of a tongue, and protrude the tongue out, and inhale slowly through the mouth, through this tongue. Then we close the mouth and exhale through both the nostrils. Sheetali pranayama cools the body. So, let us begin this practice. Gently close your eyes. Let the tongue come out. Make a tube of your tongue. And inhale slowly through the mouth. Then exhale through both the nostrils. Repeat this practice three more times. Relax. Now we are moving toward the next practice, Bhramari Pranayama. Means the black bee Pranayama. During this Pranayama, we produce a sound resembling the buzzing of a black bee. This Pranayama calms the body as well as the mind. It tranquilizes you. For this, once again, straighten your back muscles. Keep your eyes closed. Inhale deeply, and while exhaling, produce humming bee sound. Feel the vibrations of the sound from the heart to the head region. Let us begin this practice. Repeat four more times. Relax. Bhramari Pranayama calms your mind and tranquilizes you. Now we are moving towards the practice of Dhyana meditation. Beginners can open their eyes and see the Dhyana mudra. Adopt Dhyana mudra. For Dhyana mudra, place your left hand down, right hand on top of it. Try to join the tip of both the thumbs and place your hands on your lap. Keep your back and neck straight. With the chin slightly elevated. Close your eyes. Maintain a mild focus between the eyebrows. And be aware of your breath. If any thought comes in your mind, just be a witness. Observe your thoughts and feelings as if you're watching a movie. Just be a witness. Just be a witness. And bring your attention back to your breath. Don't move the body. Just be aware of your breath. Meditation keeps the mind calm and quiet. It increases concentration, memory, clarity of thought. Rejuvenates the body as well as the mind. Slowly come out of meditation. Now, join your palms in namaskar mudra once again, and bring your hands close to the chest. We are doing the sankalpa, the resolution now. Keep your eyes closed. I commit myself to maintaining a balanced state of mind at all times. It is in this state that my growth reaches its maximum potential. I pledge to fulfill my responsibilities to myself, my family, work, society, and the world to promote peace, health, and harmony. Now, we will be concluding the session with shanti path. The meaning is may all become happy. May all be free from illness. May all see what is auspicious. May no one suffer. Om peace, peace, peace. Om. Rub your palms. Make cup of your hands. Keep it on your eyes. Gently remove and open your eyes. So, this is end of the session. Thank you so much for joining in. I hope you all enjoyed the session. Namaskar. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, madam. And with that, excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that you had a centering and energizing experience with that invigorating common yoga protocol session. I invite you to please rise for the national anthem. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. A healthy breakfast awaits you. We will all wait for the Excellency, the heads of missions to proceed to the breakfast area first, and then we will all shortly follow. So, I request everyone else to please remain in their positions and request excellencies, heads of missions to kindly proceed towards the breakfast area. And everyone else will follow very briefly. Once again, we thank you for your presence this morning.