of unity leading towards international day of yoga. So yesterday we have looked at lateral practices. So lateral bend will work to improve the circulatory system of our body. So today we are going to focus on asas which help our spine to twist. So this twisting postures will allow the abdominal organs to get very nice massage. It will relax our spine. It will improve the function of our digestive system. So today we will be focusing on twist postures. So let's begin. You can sit comfortably on the mat. You can close your eyes. We will begin by connecting with ourself. You can slowly scan your toes, feet and ankles. Just check them how they are right now. Bring that attention to your calf muscles. your knees, thighs, how you are seated on the mat right now. Are you balanced or not? Are you comfortable or not? Just check yourself. Make sure the back is straight, shoulders relaxed, arms relaxed, chin slightly closer to your neck. Have a gentle smile on your face. Eyes closed, forehead relaxed. Connect with your body. Now slowly start observing your breath. How you are breathing right now in this moment of time. I am not asking you to inhale and exhale. Just observe how you are breathing right now. Your normal breath. Slow down your breath. Calm your mind. Now slowly bring that attention to your heart. Feel your heartbeat. Once you are able to get in touch with your heart, ask yourself what is your goal or purpose behind doing these practices? Make sure you fix your goal before continuing the practice. Once you fix your goal, have a gentle suggestion. Whatever your goal is, let these practices help you in achieving it. With this suggestion in the heart, we will do the prayer. Oh. Sahes. Oh shanti shanti shanti let there be peace with things which are not in our control. Let there be peace around us and let there be peace within us. With this prayer, we will begin the practice. So you can place your right palm on your abdomen area. You can relax your left palm on your left knee and focus only on your exhalation how you are breathing out. Let the inhalation happen automatically. Free inhale. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Slow and gentle exhalation. As you exhale, slowly pull in your abdomen area. Try to pull in from lower abdomen area. Inhale freely. Let the inhalation happen automatically. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Slow and gentle exhalation. As you exhale, slowly pull in your abdomen area. You can do this two more round yourself. Make sure your back is straight. chin closer to your neck and make sure your mind is with the breath. Don't let your mind go here and there. Focus only on your exhalation. Once two round completed, you can relax your right palm on your right knee. Breathe normally here. Now place your left palm on your chest. Now we will focus only on our inhalation. So attention on your chest. Slow and gentle inhalation and feel the expansion of your chest on all the sides, front, sides and upper back. And exhale freely. Attention on your chest. Slow and gentle inhalation. And feel the expansion of your chest area. and exhale freely. Do this two more round yourself. Pull attention on your inhalation. How you are breathing in and let the exhalation happen automatically. Once completed, you can relax your left palm on your left knee. Now you can open your eyes and slowly stand up on the mat. So this breathing technique when we place our palm on the abdomen and exhale we are trying to work on a downward flowing energy called apana wu and on inhalation we are trying to work on an energy called prana in our chest area. So now all of you are familiar with tadasana. So we will begin with tadasana. So first stand in samasti. You can join your feet together, palms to the side of your body, shoulders relaxed, chin closer to your neck, and make sure you fix your attention on a point in front of you. So eyes open, fix your attention on a point in front of you. Now start your inhalation. Start raising your arms up from the sides and raise your heels up. Joining your palms together. Go to tadasana. Raise your heels also up. Yes. Join your palms together. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Start your exhalation. Slowly bring your arms down from the sides and heels back on the mat. Then finish your exhalation. Make sure you follow all the breathing techniques. Attention on your chest. Start your inhalation. Start raising your arms up, heels up, and join your palms together. Chin closer to the neck. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Start exhaling. Slowly bring your arms down and heels back on the mat. And make sure you synchronize the movement of your arm and your heel. Your palms will touch the thighs and heels will touch the mat at the same time. Okay. Third round. Attention on your chest. Start inhaling. Start raising your arms up. Heels up. Finish the movement. Then finish your inhalation. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Start exhaling. Slowly bring your arms down from the sides and heels back on the mat. Fourth round. Inhale and go up. Raising your arms up and heels up. Pause. Exhale. Slowly bring your arms down and heels back on the mat. One more round. Inhale and go up. Now maintain this posture. Exhale here 6 seconds. 1 2 3 4 5 6. Pause. Attention on your chest. Inhale and go up little more. 4 seconds. 1 2 3 4. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale. Slowly bring your arms down and heels back on the mat. Very good. Now you can have your legs apart. Open your palms. If you are comfortable, you can close your eyes and observe yourself. Observe your body, your breath and your thoughts. So today is the third day. So doing tadasana, how was it on the first day? And are you able to feel any change on the third day? Do you feel like you are more balanced in that posture? Just check yourself. Okay. Moving to the next posture. Next we will do a simple twist. So again stand in samasti. Feet together, palms to the sides, shoulders relaxed, chin closer to the neck. Fix your attention on a point in front of you. Now attention on your chest. As you inhale, raise your arms up from the sides to shoulder level, palms facing down. Take a pause attention on your abdomen. As you exhale, twist to your left side, placing your right palm on the left shoulder and left palm on your lower back and look back. In this posture, make sure your hip is facing forward and twist is happening from the waist. So your right palm is resting on your left shoulder. Left palm resting on your lower back and you are looking back. Breathe normally here. On the next inhalation, untwist your head. Untwist your body. Stretch your arms to the sides. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Start exhaling and twist to the right side. Placing the left palm on your right shoulder. Right palm on your lower back and look back. Very good. Attention on your chest. Inhale. Untwist your body. Stretching arms to the sides. Exhale. Slowly bring your arms down from the sides. So this become one round. Going to do the second one. attention on your chest. Start your inhalation. Slowly raise your arms up to shoulder level. Finish your movement. Then finish your inhalation. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Start exhaling. Then twist to your left side. Right palm on the left shoulder. Left palm on the lower back. Look back. Hip facing forward. Attention on your chest. Inhale. Untwist your body. Stretching arms to the sides. Pause. Attention on your abdomomen. Exhale and twist to the right side. Left palm on right shoulder. Right palm on lower back and look back. Attention on your chest. Inhale. Untwist your body. Come to middle. Exhale. Slowly bring your arms down. Okay. Third round. Inhale. Raise your arms to shoulder level from the sides. Take a pose. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale and twist to the left side. Very slowly with the breath. Very good. Attention on your chest. Inhale. Come to middle. Stretching arms to the sides. Pause. Attention on abdomen. Exhale. And twist to the right side. Left palm on right shoulder. Right palm on your lower back. Pause. Attention on your chest. Inhale. Untwist your body. Come to middle. Exhale. Slowly bring your arms down. Do it one more round yourself. Make sure full attention is on your breath. Very slowly with the breath. Movement is happening in between your breath. Inhale. Come to middle. Start exhaling. Then go to the other side. Very slowly with the breath. Inhale. Come to middle. Exhale. Slowly bring your arms down. So now we have done an asymmetrical posture. So we will do a symmetric posture to counter it. Okay. So same stand in sustadi. As you inhale raise your arms to shoulder level from the sides. Take a pause attention on your abdomen. As you exhale bend forward from your lower back placing the back side of your palms on your back. Attention on your chest. Start inhaling. Stretch your arms to the sides and come up. Pause. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale. Slowly bring your arms down. Okay. Again. Inhale. Raise your arms to shoulder level from the sides. Exhale and bend forward. Placing the palms on your back. Back side of your palms on your back. Inhale and come up. Stretching arms to the sides. Pause. Exhale. Slowly bring your arms down. Okay, you can do this one more round yourself. Do it very slowly with your own breath. Yes. Once completed again stand in shidadasana. Legs apart. Open your palms. Close your eyes and observe yourself. Observe your body, your breath and your thoughts. Okay, moving to the next posture. We are going to do tririconasana pariti. So all the sisters can look to the brother's side and brothers can look to the sister's side. Yes. So you can stand at one end of the mat and take a comfortable step towards the inside of your mat. Make sure your legs are apart in a comfortable distance. Okay. So attention on your chest. As you inhale, raise your arms from the sides to shoulder level. Take a pose. Attention on your abdomen. As you exhale, bend forward slightly and twist to your left side. Right palm on your left leg. Wherever you are comfortable, turn your head and look at your left palm in the posture. Turn your head and look at the left palm. In the posture, take a pose. Attention on your chest. As you inhale, untwist your head. Untwist your body. Stretch your arms to the sides and come up. Pause. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale. Bend forward slightly and twist to the right side. Place your left palm on the right leg. Turn your head and look at the right palm. Attention on your chest. Inhale and come up. Untwist your head. Untwist your body and come up. Exhale. Slowly bring your arms down. So this become one round. So second round. Attention on your chest. Start your inhalation. Slowly raise your arms up to shoulder level. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale. Bend forward slightly and twist to the left side looking at your left palm. Attention on your chest. Inhale. Untwist your body and come up. Untwist your head, your body and come up. Pause. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale. Bend forward slightly and twist to the right side. Turn your head and look at the right palm. Very good. attention on your chest. Inhale, untwist your head, your body. Stretch your arms to the sides and come up. Exhale, slowly bring the arms down. One more round. As you inhale, raise your arms to shoulder level from the sides. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Start exhaling. Then bend forward and twist to the left side. Turn your head and look at the left palm. Take a pause. Attention on your chest. As you inhale, come up. Pause. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale. Bend forward slightly and twist to the right side looking at your right palm. Attention on your chest. Inhale and come up. Exhale. Slowly bring your arms down. Do it one more round yourself. Make sure you follow all the breathing techniques. The movement of your body is happening in between your breath. Very good. Now you can lie down on the mat. Relax and observe yourself after doing this twist triona pariti. Is there any change you are able to experience in your system? How is your body, your breath, your thoughts? How is the left side of your body, right side of your body? Just check yourself. Here we will do aanasana. So you can bend your knees. You can lift your feet off the mat and place your palm on your knees. Okay, your feet is off the mat. You have to lift your feet up and place your palms on your knee. So in this posture, make sure you are not using your arm strength. Your arms are just relaxing on your knees. Okay? Don't use your arms to pull your knees. So, beginning posture, your elbows are straight, knee away from the body. Now, attention on your abdomen. As you exhale, slowly bring your knee closer to your body as you breathe out without using your arms. Very good. Attention on your chest as you inhale. Knee going away from the body. Pause. Attention on your abdomen. As you exhale, knee coming closer. Inhale. Knee going away from body. Attention on abdomen. As you exhale, knee coming closer to the body. Attention on your chest. Inhale, knee going away from the body. You can do this one more round yourself. Make sure you are not using your arms to pull your knees. Last round. You can place your feet on the mat. Stretch your leg one by one. Have your legs apart, arms apart. Close your eyes and relax your body completely. Here we will do a quick relaxation. So bring attention to your toes. Wiggle your toes slightly and relax them. Now imagine a healing energy from mother earth entering into your toes, feet and ankles, relaxing them. Let that energy move up relaxing your calf muscles, knees, thighs, hips. Your legs are completely relaxed. Bring attention to your lower back, upper back, the entire back completely relaxed. It's done. Bring attention to your abdomen area. Relax your abdomen area. Bring attention to your chest. Relax your chest area. Bring attention to your shoulders. Let all the tensions melt away from your shoulders. Bring attention to your upper arms, lower arms, all the way up to your fingertips. Your arms completely relaxed. Bring attention to your neck. Relax your neck. Bring attention to your face. Relax all your facial muscles from top of your head to the toes. The entire body completely relaxed. Now slowly bring your attention back to your body. You can wiggle your toes, your fingers. Now slowly turn into any one side. Keep your eyes closed. Now with the help of your arms, come to a seated posture. Bring attention to your heart. Sit comfortably and observe yourself.