[Music] [Laughter] The Indian culture is celebratory in its very nature and whatever comes out of such a nation is a celebration in itself. One such gift of India has given to the world is yoga. As we celebrate the international yoga day 2025, let's delve into its theme yoga for one earth one health given by Indian prime minister Narendra Modi who has truly underlined India's underlining commitment to spreading the message of having a healthy body along with a healthy planet. On March 30th this year, Prime Minister Modi formally declared yoga for one earth, one health as the theme for this year's international yoga day during his popular radio program Monkey Bath. He mentioned that this theme embodies India's mission to make global wellness better by using yoga to make everyone healthy. The theme also falls in line with India's G20 presidency vision of one earth, one family, one future with a focus on overall well-being for everyone. The theme highlights yoga's role in promoting physical, mental, and environmental well-being. Aligning with global calls for sustainability and unity, it builds on more than a decade of success since the United Nations recognized June 21st as the International Day of Yoga in 2014. With growing global awareness, people from all walks of life are increasingly recognizing the vital connection between human health and the health of the planet. Yoga is very helpful to make our earth green. The reason is that the people who come here they start believing in plantation and they get attached with the natural uh climates and trees and plants. It's being benefited to all everybody and of all age group people uh youngs as well as old everybody are coming even we after retirement are coming regularly daily and we are being benefited a lot keeps me so stressfree so happy when I go back I'm so happy that it really impacts the whole atmosphere of my house who will not plant more trees if your consciousness grows so as the consciousness expands there'll be far more greenery in the world. [Music] Yoga for one earth, one health calls to mind the very fact that taking care of self and taking care of the planet go hand in hand. With yoga, we can be more happier, healthier and more informs humans of the world. So this international yoga day let us get ourselves to begin with more healthier habits not just for ourselves but also for the planet. With camera person Monty this is Pay Yadav for DD India.