Namaste. Today's class we practicing with the yoga day protocol. Initially we'll start with the prayer. Namaskar. We'll do one home chanting and repeat with me with the prayer. Let's start breathing. Oh, [Music] [Music] shat one. John way they sa [Music] Na. Slowly start observe your sensations in your body. Feel the sensations of chanting vibrations within you. Slowly open your eyes. Keep your palms to the side. Palms on chin budda. Adjust your toes. Adjust your heels. Slowly roll back your shoulders. And stretch your arms and legs. Hold your waist. Start loosening your neck joints. Okay. Slowly head up. Breathe in. Head down. Breathe out. Head up. Breathe in. And head down. Breathe out. One more round. Slowly come to center. Bend your head one side. Breathe in. Come to center. Bend the other side. Breathe out. Breathe in. Center. Breathe out. Other side. Breathe in. Breathe out. Slowly come to center. Yes. Head down. Smoothly. Start rotating your head. When you lift up the head after half circle, breathe in. Breathe out. Down. Head out. Breathe in. Head down. Breathe out. Head out. Breathe in. Head down. Breathe out. Slowly go to reverse direction. Breathe in. Head up. Breathe out. Head down. One more round. Breathe in up. Breathe out. Down. Again, breathe in. Breathe out. Okay. Slowly release. Roll back your shoulders and shrug your arms. Stretch your arms to the shoulder line. Palms facing up and down. Breathe in up and down. One more round. Breathe in and breathe out. Slowly turn your palms facing up. Fingertips on your shoulders. Lift up your elbows. Hold. Stretch the side part of your body. Breathe in here. Breathe out. Elbows down. Breathe in. Elbows up. Breathe out down. One more round. Breathe in. And breathe out down. Okay. Now slowly close the elbows in front. Breathe in. Open your elbows. Breathe out. Close. Breathe in. Open. Breathe out. Close. Breathe in. Breathe out. Now start focusing your elbows and rotation. Do the rotations with the elbows. Breathe in up down and close. Breathe out. Upward. Breathe in side down. Breathe out and close. One more round. Now go to the reverse direction. Breathe into the side. Up. Breathe in. Down. And side. Breathe out. up. Breathe in. Close and side down. Do one more round and release. Okay. Slowly stretch your arms nicely. Yes. Relax your shoulders. Now stretch your arms forward. Breathe in. Twist the whole spine. Breathe out to the side. Breathe in. Come to center. Breathe out. Twist the spine. Breathe in center. Breathe out. Twist. Breathe in. Breathe out. One more round. Breathe in. And breathe out. Slowly come to center. Just roll back your shoulders. We are loosening your upper body, the neck and shoulders and your back. Go to the lower part of your body. Start rotating your hip fully. Slow rotation with slow breath movement. Yes. Go to other side. Yes. Once you're done and feel good around your hips, stand in in line with the hips. Okay. Keep your feet in line with the hips. Slightly micro bend your knees pushing your hips back and open up your knees. Breathe in and breathe out. Stand strong. Breathe in slightly. Open up your knees. Breathe out. Or you can do other way also. Breathe in straight. Legs try or breathe out bend. Go for natural breathe in and out any way. Okay. Now once you bend just rotating your knees go to other sides. Yes. Perfect. Once you lock stand and come up come back. Shake your legs. Yes. Now press the right toe fingers. Press the left toe fingers. Loosen your ankle joint. Okay. The lower body has three joints. Should be loosen up and has to create the space between the ankle joints, knee joints and the hip joints. Yes. Now start rotating your right leg to loosen these three joints. Go to the left side. Yes. Slowly release and shake your legs. Okay. Yes. Now all your our five joints. Lower body three joints. Upper body two joints are loosen up. Body is ready to do the yoga poses. Okay. Let's start balancing postures first. Interlock your fingers. Palms facing up. Slowly lift your heels up. We'll doa. It helps to increase your digestive system and helps to wash off your impurities from your large intestine and small intestine. Do smooth breathe in and out. If you are not able to fold, if your legs are having lot of jokes, slightly drop the heels down. Stretch the back leg muscles and again go up. Go for natural and deep breathe outs. Feel your breath outs double than your breathe in. Slowly drop the heels down. Hands to the side and release. Shake your legs. Roll back your shoulders. Long breathe in and out. Hold your waist. Take the right leg up. Breathe naturally. Now start rotating your right ankle. Go to other side. Yes. Try to learn the balance to stand on one side. Go down. Go to the left leg. Once you take the rotation, the root is taking active and get the balance. Reverse. Yes. Slowly release. Shake your legs. Yes. We'll do rrookasana tree pose. Okay. Right foot on your left thigh. If you are a beginner, just hold on your knees or the calf muscle is the best practice. Okay. Hold nicely. Keep your hands to the chin mudra to the side. Once you find the balance and activate your both the sides of your root on right to left, left to right, the leg muscles activity should be natural. Then only you are able to balance when you rise the arms. Yes. Focus your left foot big toe firmly pressing on the ground. Yes. Slowly move your palms to the heart and let down. Okay. Everyday practice you'll have the balance. Now go to the other side. If you ever put on the calf muscle or on your knee, take the thigh support, anything. It's up to you. Chin mudra first to the side helps you to make your root area active. Then rise your upper body. Yes. Once you rise your arms up, if your lower body is not controlled, slowly drop the leg down and take the ground support. Take the ground support and touch the heel. Left heel on your right cough muscle. That's also good. Okay. Slowly move your palms down and release. Okay, these two balancing postures are tarasana and gchasana is in our protocol. We'll start with this postures. The next round three postures, standing postures. Once the back bend, forward bend and the triangle pose. Okay, we'll do that now. Hold your waist area slowly while pushing your hip forward. Stretch your body. Arch backasana. Keeping your body like half wheel posture. Do not tighten your neck and shoulders. Go for natural breathing out. Slowly come up. Stand straight. Relax your body. Okay. Go for one more round. Keep adjusting your lower back. Open your lower abdominal muscles. Do not get any overshaking around your abdomen. Slowly come up. Stand straight. Roll back your shoulders and shake your legs. Now slowly raise your arms up. We'll do the forward bending. Okay. Now before we do forward bend, we will keep our roots strong and back strong. Keep pushing your hips back and micro bend your knees. Then drop the hands down and palms to the side of your feet. If your back is not supporting, slightly bend your knees. Rise your arms up. Body straight. Breathe in. While breathing out, keep your back adjustment and bend down. Breathe in. Rise your arms. Breathe out. Palms down. Hold. Those who have high blood pressure issues, try to lift your head up. Helps you not to fight any dizziness. Looking fat will never eat your BP levels high. Even just activating your lower abdominal muscles release the tightness on your neck slightly. Micro bending your knees helps to release the back straight. Slowly rise your arms up. Long breath out. And namaskar. Okay. The back bend and forward bend done in standing sequences. Now the third one is triona the triangle pose. Come forward. Take the right leg three steps back. Okay. Three steps means where your both the legs are straightened and your body weight is balancing on both the legs. Okay. Now on your leg line keep your hands also open. Yes. Okay. Once you are bending forward that is left side if you are bending before you bend the left we are pushing your right hip backward right hip back. Right side bend the left side. Then your body should be parallel and in line with the legs. When you are opening not opening your right hip, your body weight drops on the front leg. So keep shifting your body weight on back leg too. Then only you are able to open up your chest and keep your right hand and both the hands in line with the front leg. Slowly come up. Stand straight and slowly turn your feet to the right side. Again, hands to the side. Okay, this time we are bending the right side. So pushing your left hip on your left side then bend the right side. When you open the left hip you are balancing the body weight on both the legs. Then you can open up your chest and not to feel any heaviness on your neck and shoulders. Go for natural breathe and out. Slowly come up. Stand straight. Release the hands. Release the legs. Shake your legs and shrug your arms. Slowly roll back your shoulders. Yes. Open your legs. If the neck and shoulders are paining, just open up your legs and move your head side to side. This helps to release the neck and upper body muscle tension. Okay. Slowly come down. Keep adjusting your mat and the camera. We are going to sitting postures. Once you say stretch the legs, stretch the legs. both the toes together and get just your hips. Yes. Once your toes are together, keep your palms to the side of your hips. Okay. Once you are bending your elbows, you are closing your rib cage area. You are stopping your respiratory system, the oxygen flow to the lower body. So try to sit straight. The length of your spine is the length of your arms. Do not drop the body weight on the palms. Okay. This is called gandasana. Garland pose. It helps to send the oxygen flow and the aligning your spinal cord smoothly. You feel the sensations of your oxygen and blood circulation in your arms and legs and the lios blood circulation goes from hips to top of your head. The tailbone area to top of the head. It shoots up quickly and energizing your all your nervous system. You are activating each and every ni if you are able to sit properly to keep your legs and arms steady. Okay. Now release the hands. Keep your hands on your knees. Slowly close your feet like namaskar. Butterfly posture. Yes. Basana. Slowly lock your palms. Just close your palms or hold your big toe. It's up to you. Don't bend your body. Don't bend your elbows. Palms are straight. Back is right. Slowly focus your eyebrow center. Feel good. You are able to make your legs and your back straight. When your upper body is straight and in your control, the oxygen flows quickly. Tilt the toes. So the lower body is taking good flexibility and increase the physical stamina. Then mentally you are strong. This posture helps you to develop the body mind connection. Slowly release the hands and stretch the legs one by one. This time maintain your feet in line with the hip. No need to close the toes together. Okay. Shake your legs. Slowly roll back your shoulders. Adjust your hips side to side. We are going to do spinal twist. It's called vakra asana. Bending your right foot. Bending your right foot. Right knee bend. Okay. Hold the right knee with the left hand and right hand up. Right hand up. Hold the right hand up. Drop the right hand back of your right hip. Twist the spine and open your chest. Look it back over your right shoulder. Go for natural breathe in and out. Feel good and activate your lower spinal area as you twist properly. Do not tighten your neck and shoulders. This helps to increase your pancreas functioning and balancing your sugar levels. Slowly come forward. Release the right leg and shake your legs. We'll do the other side. The other side of the posture is the counter pose pose of the previous one. Okay, we need to do this one. left hand up and drop the left hand back. Then close the right hand with the knee. Look it back over your left shoulder. Go for natural breathing and out. Release the tightness on your neck and shoulders and keep twisting your lower spine alone. Two more breaths. Slowly come forward. Release. Stretch the legs. Yes. Shake your legs. Yes. We'll do the next one called vadrasana. The diamond pose. Rotating your toes. Prepare your ankles before you do the vajrasana. Okay. Go to other side. Yes. If your back is strong, knees are strong, go for one by one. See, one leg should bend first. Then lift up the body. Go for the left leg other side. If you are not able to bring the left leg other side, you are able to stretch both the legs on one side and lift up the hip. You can choose either way. Okay. Easily you can turn and able to sit. It helps to strengthening your knee joints. Activate your calf muscles and keep your feet like a ball. Focus to keep your toes and heels like a half U shape. Then you can place your case in between the heels. Okay. Yes. Once you sit properly in vadrasana, try to stand on your knees. Stand on your knees. After vajrasana properly, we'll do the camel pose. Okay. Make sure your knees and hip are in one line. If you are able to reach the toes, it is fine. Or you can tuck your toes. It's up to you as you wish. Okay. Now, by stretching your thighs, hold your back of the Yes. lumbar spine. Roll back your shoulders. Hide your elbows behind your body. What we did before the back bend. The same we can do. Slightly arch back your upper body. Okay. Do not overtighten your upper body. Feel good. It develops the patience level in you increases tremendously. Camel has lot of patience. That patience helps camel to adjust any weather conditions. We also adopt that nature. Slowly if you are a regular practitioner, slowly drop the right hand and touch the right heel, left hand and touch the left heel. Okay. After touching both the heels, pushing your hip forward. If not, keep your hands on your back. Both are getting the same benefits. Slowly come up. Yes. Open your knees and sit on aa again by opening your knees. Okay. Once you open your knees, you keep your arms upward and cross your palms and touch the opposite shoulder. Mandukasana it helps to balancing your leg muscles and arm muscles and helps to activate the energy in all your nervous junctions. Go for natural breathing out. Improves the lungs capacity and helps to control your body with the help of your breath phase. Slowly release the hands. Stretch your hands front. Drop the elbows down. First go to child pose. It's a superb grounding posture. It helps to strengthening your leg joints and the arm joints. Also strengthening your back. The ground energy absorbs within you and down to earth nature develops within you. Slowly come up. Lie down on your tummy side. From here easy to step onto the next posture. Slowly adjusting your root of your body by moving your hips side to side. If your knees are feeling any uneasiness, tuck your toes and stretch the knees nicely and relax. Your natural breather out. Okay. Release the toes slowly. head up and we'll do macarasana crocodile posture. Keep your elbows in line with the shoulders and palms under your cheeks. Palms under your cheeks helps to adjusting your sensor bones and relaxing your facial muscles. Make sure back neck will not be tightened. Keep lengthening your neck upward. Do not drop the head weight on your palms. Touching your fingertips on your ears helps to activate your sense organs. In this posture, crocodile has the wonderful nature to observe what's happening behind you. The same nature we are adopting when you are practicing this posture and helps this also helps to strengthening your lumbar spine. After two three breaths lumbar spine starts taking the energy. Keep releasing the legs muscle tension and neck muscle tension. Slowly drop the hands in line with the elbows. Those who have back pain, please stay here. This is called sarah bhujena. It helps to release the muscle tension on your neck and shoulders and also helps to strengthening your back. Okay. If your don't have the neck is good, lower back is good, then keep your palms to the side of your chest, roll back your shoulders. Keep opening your neck and shoulder muscles. Chest should be lifting up. Slowly close your eyes. Start focusing on your eyebro center. It helps to strengthening your whole spinal cord. Your lumbar spine and thoracic spine and the neck joints are taking good strength. Bjangasana, cobra pose. Those who have back pain, drop the elbows down and please do the previous posture. Do not tighten your neck and shoulders and release the body weight from the palms. Helps to strengthen your whole spinal cord. Slowly forehead down. Release the hands to the side of your hips and palms facing up. Take long breathing out. You can keep your head on your chin or touching your forehead. It's up to you any asa. Once you come out from the asana, you are able to improve the breath stamina by taking deep breathing out. Just try to observe every breathe out is double than your breathing time. So you're cleansing your body with each and every ASA. Slowly we going to do salamasana. Lift your legs, hands upward and chest up. Keep stretching your arms towards the fingertips. Stretching your arms towards the toe. Toes. Feel your arms and legs are light. If your arms and legs are heavy, every breathe out, go down. Relax. A good seconds. Breathe in. Stretch up nicely. Again. Do one more breath. If any breathing or heavy on your arms and legs, go down in next breathe out. All your oxygen flow goes from head to toe and arms to legs and the reverse blood circulation flows quickly till the head. Slowly drop the hands down. Relax. Initially you feel heavy on your legs and arms. Two three classes this practice you feel good. Slowly lie down on your back. Bend your knees. Adjust your lumbar spine. Fix your back completely on the ground. Once your back adjusted, neck and shoulders are also set properly on the ground. Keep your palms to the side of your hips. Once your neck muscles are adjusted, slowly lift your hips up. We are doing bridge pose sayasana. This is the wonderful inverted asa. helps to release the stress and anxiety. It helps to increase the thyroxine production and never have any thyroid problems in future. Do not overload your abdominal breathing and out. Whenever your breaths are short, you are able to absorb more and more and knees are getting hurt. Please drop your hips down. Take deep breathe and out. Once your body is getting ready, then go for the round. Do not turn your head to the side because we are dropping the body weight on our neck. Neck muscles are so sensitive. It's like hairline muscles. Sometimes it may get cramps when you the body is dropping on the head and when you turn slowly drop the hips down. Hug your knees and stretch the legs upward 90°. If anyone have back pain, drop one leg down and do with only one leg. Okay. 90° angle is called gutanasana. This is also wonderful inverted asa to strengthen your back and core muscles. You'll get core strength tremendously. Slowly do breathe out here in 90°. Breathe in. Move your legs to 30°. Breathe out. Move to 90°. Breathe in. Move your legs to 30. Breathe out. 90. Your back is not supporting. If your knees neck is tightening, please do with one leg. Breathe in 30°. Breathe out. Move your legs. 90. Breathe in. 30. Hold. One more. Breathe out here. 1 2 3 4 5. Come up 90°. Hold. 1 2 3 4 5. Slowly hug your knees. Massage your back. The slight movement of your knees side to side helps to release the back muscle tension and knee shoulder muscle tension. Now start observing your active breaouts. Keep flattening your tummy. This is called muttasana. It helps to release the excess gas. Windreasing posture. If we breathe out, the air impurities alone are going up. Oxygen helps to absorb properly and balancing your respiratory system. The fluid and solid impurities and waste is pushing down towards the outlets. Keep relaxing your body here. Every breath out try to release the unwanted gases from your body. only carbon dioxide is the possibility to go upward towards the no rays. The excess nitric acids any other carbon monoxide unwanted gases which our body doesn't need will push down towards the outlet. Slowly drop the feet down under your knees. Stretching your arms over your head and palms together. Feet together and knees together. Drop the knees on your right side. Keep relaxing your root of your body. Create the space on your pelvis, uterus, and your lower back. Make sure arm muscles are relaxed. Leg muscles are also relaxed. Take deep breathing and out and keep flattening your tummy. Keep draw the belly in. Slowly come to center and go to the other side. Once you reach this relaxation ASA you are in meditation. You can release the stress and anxiety from your body. All your joints and muscles are taking the strength. Slowly come up. Come to center. Adjust your right leg. Stretch the left leg straight. Make sure legs are in V shape. Keep your feet edge of the mat. Palms to the side of your hips and palms facing up. Relax in sasana. It's called amraasana. Everything you are creating the harmony and also creating the happy hormones within you and you are connecting to your inner energy slowly conscious on your body parts. Start observing your feet. Relax your feet. Relax your ankles. Relax your calf muscles. Relax your knees. Relax your thighs. Deeply relaxing your hips. Relax your abdominal muscles. Relax your chest. Relax your shoulders. Relax your arms. Slowly move your focus on your back from top to bottom. Entire back is relax. Relax your neck muscles. your H base sens and relax your much slowly conscious on your body parts. Move your toes. Move your fingers. Move your head side to side. Stretch your arms back over your head. Legs to be closed. Feel long stretch from your toes to lips. We are doing evening. So we are turning your body left side. If it is morning we should turn the right slowly slightly bend your knees. Take the left hand support under your head. Keep your right hand right palm near your chest on the floor. Make sure back of the spine is straight and release the muscle tension on your spine. Slowly press the right hand near your chest and get up. Sit on comfortable sucasana. Roll back your shoulders. Keep your palms resting on your knees and follow the chin mudra. Release the stress on your neck. You feel the neck is stress. Head up and head down. One round stretch to the side and start lengthening up your neck. Shoulders are stretching down and spend spine is lengthening up. Make sure back of the spine is straight. Start observing your abdominal movements on your breathe in and out. Chest movements on your breathe in and out. Coordinate your abdomomen and chest together in one breathe in and out. Keep relaxing your neck and shoulders on every breathe out. Now start observing your breath from navl to nostril. Keep relaxing your facial muscles and sense organs. You are focusing your five elements energy and balancing those five elements in your body. the air, water, fire, ground and space energy by practicing this yogic breathing by observing from narrative. Simple practice. Slowly open your eyes. Take the right hand. We'll do the nari pranayama. Okay. Take the right hand to use the right nostril closing. Little finger and ring finger to use the left nostril closing. Okay. Index and middle finger are closing. This is called nasi kamudra. We'll do this. Now start breathing from left side. Close the left side with the ring and little finger. Breathe out right side by opening your thumb. Breathe in right side. Close the thumb with the right nostril. And breathe out left side. This is called one round. Breathe in left. Go for second round. Close and breathe out. Right. Breathe in right. Close and breathe out. Relax. Do three more rounds on your own. Once you breathe out left side, relax your body slowly. Head up, breathe in. Head down, breathe out. Head up, breathe in. Head down. Breathe out. Come up. Now we'll do brahari pranayama. Take the both the hands and touching your sensor bones. Finger should touch the sensor bones. Last three fingers should touch the nose or the mouth. The index finger is touching the eyes. Now thumb point should close the ears. Okay. Just try to touch your sense organs with the fingertips and start doing mara chanting humping b sound on your way outs. Let's start. Go for two more rounds on your own. [Music] Once you finish the arms, relax. Those who finish please sit on chin mudra. Place the palms properly on resting on your knees and feel the vibrations of macara chanting into your body and feel the resonance in your mind. Slowly we'll end up with the prayer chanti mantra. Close the palms. Just repeat with me. [Music] [Music] [Music] may surv. Repeat with meant all together. Breathe in. [Music] Oh sh your palms. palms. Keep your palms on your eyes, palms on your cheeks, on your neck, palms on your chest, palms to the side. Keep your palms back, palms front and open your eyes. Close the palms, head down. Stretch your palms forward. And if possible, forehead down. If not, it's okay. Pray the mother lord and take the blessings slowly come up. Namaskar. Thank you. Namaste and good night. Thank you. It was amazing. Thank you.