International Day of Yoga 21st June 2025 theme yoga for one earth one health. Namaste and welcome. Today we gather in spirit and awareness to observe the 11th international day of yoga celebrated on 21st June 2025. This year's theme yoga for one earth one health is more than a message. It is a mission. It highlights the deep connection between individual well-being and planetary health. Yoga, an ancient Indian discipline, is much more than physical exercise. It is a union of body and mind, self and environment, individual and universal consciousness. The word comes from the Sanskrit root yuj which means to join or to unite. It symbolizes harmony, balance and wholeness. Originating thousands of years ago in India, yoga is a spiritual, mental and physical practice. It has stood the test of time and is now practiced across the world in many forms from traditional ha and ashtanga to modern adaptations. Yoga calms the mind, strengthens the body, and fosters mindfulness, enabling us to make healthier and more sustainable lifestyle choices. On 11th December 2014, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution co-sponsored by a record 175 member states declaring 21st June as the International Day of Yoga. This global recognition was made possible by the visionary leadership of Hanlay Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi who introduced the idea during his address to the 69th session of the UN General Assembly. He said, and I quote, "Yoga is an invaluable gift from our ancient tradition. It embodies unity of mind and body, thought and action, a holistic approach that is valuable to our health and well-being. Since then, every year, millions across the globe come together on this day to celebrate the transformative power of yoga. Yoga is not just an exercise routine. It is a lifestyle, a philosophy, and a way of life that encourages peace, resilience, and self-awareness. This year's theme, yoga for one earth, one health, reflects the Indian philosophy of Vasua Kutumba, meaning the world is one family. It reminds us that when we care for ourselves, we also begin to care for the planet. Mindful living promotes not just personal wellness, but also environmental responsibility. The World Health Organization also recognizes yoga as a key tool in preventing non-communicable diseases such as heart conditions, diabetes, and obesity. All linked to inactivity and poor lifestyle. Yoga is a preventive, sustainable, and accessible solution for global health challenges. As the great yogi BKS Yenar once said, "Yoga cultivates the ways of maintaining a balanced attitude in day-to-day life and endows skill in the performance of one's actions. This balance is what the world urgently needs today. Centuries ago, the poet Bartari beautifully summarized the power of yoga. By practicing yoga, a person gains courage like a father, forgiveness like a mother, mental peace as a true friend, truth as their child, compassion as a sister, self-restraint as a brother, the earth as a bed, and knowledge to satisfy their hunger. Isn't that the ultimate vision of harmony? As we celebrate this 11th International Day of Yoga, let's remember yoga is not about bending our bodies, but about bending our egos, opening our hearts, and uniting with all that surrounds us. Let us commit to a healthier self and in doing so to a healthier earth. Let us celebrate yoga for one earth, one health. Happy International Day of Yoga, 21st June 2025. Join the movement. Breathe, stretch, connect. # yoga 41 earth one health # international yoga