Hi friends, welcome to today's class. My name is Arian Elizabeth and welcome to International Day of Yoga 2025. I had to film a class for today, of course. Thank you so much for your patience. I know I've been a little MIA for a moment. Um, and I have been healing from some things. Everything is good. Everything is great. Um, but I do appreciate your patience and continued support. Um, today's class will definitely be fairly gentle. We'll definitely get into a couple little balancing and twists, but nothing too too crazy. Um, yeah. All you'll need is yourself and your mat. If you'd like, you can grab a pair of blocks. Um, if and have them nearby. All righty, let's get started in child's pose. and we come down to the mat. And whichever variation of child's pose you would like to take, feel free to do what works with your body today. Today my body's calling for nice wide knees, reaching towards the top of my mat. Forehead comes to the mat. Nice big inhale through the nose and a long exhale. Maybe you walk those hands in together. Maybe you bring your thumbs up towards the back of your neck. Another inhale here and exhale. Softening into the body. Softening into your hips. softening into your jaw, your face, removing your tongue from the roof of your mouth, and adding some space between your teeth. One more breath in and let it go. Very nice. Hands can come down to the mat. Let's rock it up to a tabletop. And we'll take a few spinal rolls. If you'd like, you can always opt for just a cat and cow, dropping the belly and rounding to the spine. I just like to add a little bit of movement to my cat and cows, which would make the spinal rolls. So starting with your bum towards your heels and then rounding through the spine as you rock forward. Dropping the belly as you bring it back. Tucking the chin as you come forward. Lifting the gaze as you send it back. We'll take about three or four more of these. adding in any other movement that feels good to you. Maybe you drop the elbows. Maybe you add some circles. Roll through the head, the neck. Just let it feel organic. Let it feel natural. Let it feel good. Awesome. We'll come to a neutral tabletop. Extend that right leg back. Flex your foot. Wiggle your toes. Roll your ankle. Find a little bit of core engagement here as well. Nice. And we'll bring that knee down. And then extend the left leg. Again, you're not going super high. You're just going straight back. Flexing the foot, rolling the ankle, wiggling the toes, still being mindful again of that core engagement, and bring it down. Perfect. This time we'll extend that right leg, flex the foot, and then extend the left arm out in front of you, pressing into the right palm. Weight is in the left knee. [Music] Deep breath in. Exhale. Knee to elbow. Bring it in and extend. Just one time. And we'll bring it down. Again, today's class is going to be gentle, not too crazy. Extend that left leg back. Flex the foot. Extend the right arm out. Very nice. Just finding a little bit of balance here. Deep breath in. Exhale. Knee to elbow. Extend. Bring it down. Beautiful. Curl the toes. Deep breath in here. On the exhale, hips go up and back to a downward-facing dog. Pedal this out. Feel into your body. Send breath into your hamstrings, into each of those petals. You're gazing in between your feet, kind of massaging your belly with the tops of your thighs. [Music] Very nice. Come to a still downward-f facing dog. Walk the hands back towards the feet. Generous bend in the knees and hold on to opposite elbows. You can sway side to side. Maybe you nod your head yes. Maybe you shake it no. [Music] Just rocking side to side. It should feel good into your hips and really relaxing the head so that you're looking directly between your knees. Perfect. Fingertips come down to the mat. Turn the toes out. And with that support of your fingertips, we're just going to drop the hips into a little molassana. But then on an exhale, straighten through the legs. Gaze in between your legs. So lower down. Exhale. Press it up. Inhale and exhale. Last one. Inhale. Sink it down. Exhale. Press it up. Nice. Turn those toes back forward. And we're just going to walk out to a downward-facing dog. Inhale. Gaze forward and exhale take a big step to the top of your mat. Inhale halfway lift. Exhale forward fold. Chin to chest. Roll it all the way up. Head comes last. Arms reach up overhead. Hold on to that left wrist. Lengthen up. Create space. Inhale here. Exhale. Reach it over to the right. Back to center. Hold on to the right rest wrist. Inhale. Lengthen. So you're creating space first. And then exhale. Reach over to the left. Bring it back up. Palms face out. Sweep those arms behind you. Bend into the knees. Inhale, straighten through the legs here. Roll the shoulders back. Chest is lifting up. And then on the exhale, bend into the knees. Keep that bind behind you. Arms reach overhead and wrists reach overhead. So a nice little stretch into the shoulders. Stay in it for a second. Big inhale. Stay for that exhale. Release the hands down. And then you're going to step that right foot back. Perfect. The right hand stays on the mat or you can bring it to a block. I'm going to bring it to a block. Inhale. Open up that left arm. Open, open, open. Like you're trying to reach behind you. Nice. Exhale. Bring it down. Going to move the block back. Bring that right heel down and open up to your warrior 3. So adjust your stance if you need to. If you need to add some more space between your heels, feel free to do that. Find a nice strong lunge. You want that knee above your heel. or above your ankle. And you're reaching the arms in opposite directions, but you're still relaxing the shoulders. Very nice deep breath in. On the exhale, the left hand is going to sweep down as the right arm sweeps up and over. Nice big inhale here. Exhale. Straighten into the front leg. Reverse triangle. And then on the next exhale, back into that extended side angle. Bend into the knee. Left arm sweeps down like it's trying to reach to the opposite side of the room. Right arm is reaching up and over. Nice big side stretch. It feels so good. Deep breath in. Exhale. Bring it back. One more time. Reverse triangle. And then on the next exhale, we're going to cartwheel the hands down. Step that left foot back. You can take a full chaturunga if you'd like to. I'm coming to my knees today. Untuck the toes. Make sure your wrists are underneath your shoulders. Keep those elbows tucked in. And we're bending down all the way to the floor. Inhale. A little cobra here. Exhale. Lower down. Nice. Pressing back to a child's pose. This is a very modified chaturunga. And then we're going to rock it forward through tabletop. Curl the toes. Hips go up and back to a downward-facing dog. Nice big breath in. And a nice long exhale out. Gaze forward. Take a nice big step there. Inhale halfway lift. Hands can come to your shins or you can float your fingers to the mat. Either way, either way, rock some weight into those toes. And remember your belly, you're kind of sucking it up and in. Gaze is slightly forward. Big inhale. Exhale. Release it down. Chin to chest roll all the way up. Arms reach up. Interlace all but your index fingers here. You're lengthened up. And exhale. We're going to sweep the arms to the left, but the whole whole torso is going to go with us as well. So like a big circle like you're drawing a big circle with your index fingers all the way down and up. One more the other way. I have a little bit of limited space here. And nice. Go ahead and sweep the arms down. Fingertips come to the mat. Bend into the knees. Step that left foot back. All right. Option to bring the left palm to the mat or you can bring it to a block. Inhale. Open up that right arm. Reach it behind you. Remember to breathe. Remember to engage that back left leg. So, you're pressing the left heel forward. One more inhale. Exhale. Bring it down. Place the block back to where it was. Spin that left heel down and open up those arms to a warrior 3. Warrior two, actually. Just kidding. All righty. Finding a nice strong lunge here. Whatever feels comfortable, but I like to add some space between my teeth, between my well, yes, some space between my teeth also to relax my jaw, but between my heels. And reach those arms out again. Relax the shoulders. Deep breath in. And on the exhale, right arm sweeps down, left arm sweeps over. Breathing here. Deep breath in. On the exhale, use that exhale to straighten through the front leg. Reverse triangle. Inhale as you open up. Exhale as you bend into that knee. Sweep those arms opposite directions. Again, gaze can go up. Inhale here. Last one. Exhale. Reverse. Inhale. And then exhale. Cartwheel the hands down. We'll take that modified chaturunga or you can take whatever chaturunga you're comfortable with. So stepping back, knees come down, untuck the toes. Make sure those hands are underneath your shoulders. Keep the elbows tucked in tight. And you're lowering all the way down. Nice and slowly. You want to keep control there. Inhale to a little cobra using those back muscles. Exhale. Lower down. Press up and back to a child's pose. [Music] And then roll through a tabletop. Curling the toes to your downward-f facing dog. Nice big inhale. Long exhale. One more inhale and exhale. Nice. Gaze it forward and step to the center of your mat. Bend into your knees. Engage your core here as you sweep your arms up by your ears. Sitting into your chair pose. Nice breath in. Exhale. Stand it up as the arms sweep behind you. Sitting sitting back into your chair. Arms by your ears. Flowing with your breath here. Exhaling as you stand. Inhale. Sit nice and low. Exhale. Press it up. One more inhale here. Stay in your chair for the exhale. Nice. One more inhale. This time, arms sweep behind you. Stay in the chair. Lift the heels. Play with your balance here just a bit. For three, two. Try to keep the heels lifted as you straighten through your legs. Arms reach up. Exhale. Hands to heart center. Heels come down. Nice. Relax the shoulders. Maybe you notice that your heart is starting to beat a little bit more. The blood is flowing. And guess what? That means that life is flowing in you. You are alive. You are well. Take a moment just to bask in gratitude for movement. No matter how simple it may feel or basic, even minor movements are major. One more inhale and exhale. Nice. We're going to keep those hands at heart center. You can flutter the eyes open. We're going to lift the heels up. Weight goes into the big toes, not into the pinkies. You want to roll onto the big toes. Engage your core here. And then slowly start to bend the knees as you lower all the way down. See how long you can stay on those tip toes until you come all the way down to your mat. Lift the heels, point the toes, and you can either keep your hands together at heart center or if you'd like, you can use a block. And we're just going to sweep to the right. Sweep to the left. Come back to center. Lift the legs. Lower. Sweep to the right. Sweep to the left. Center. Lift. One more. Lift. Very nice. Now, with those legs still lifted, reach your arms out in front of you. Holding here. Lifting your chest up. Bring your knees in toward your belly for three, two, cross your ankles. Come to an easy seat. Add some space between your ankles. And we're going to go ahead and take that left hand behind us, left fingertips behind us. You can also use a block behind you with your hand on the block. And inhale that arm, that right arm comes up and to the outer left knee. You want to lengthen up and then twist. [Music] Nice. Come back to center. You can keep the block right where it is, really. Inhale, reaching that right arm up and behind you. And then left arm sweeps up. Exhale as you bring it down to the outer right knee and twist. [Music] Don't forget to breathe. Slowly release. All righty. You can straighten those legs out in front of you. Flex your toes towards your face. You can bend into your knees generously here. Take your piece fingers to your big toes. Maybe you just stay right here. Maybe you're just reaching for your toes. That's still fine as well. And slowly straighten through the legs. Maybe you're still holding on to your big toes. If you are, find a breath in. And then exhale. Bend the elbows towards your shins or your knees. Flex the toes towards your face. And you're just gazing past your feet. If you're squeezing your teeth together, this is a reminder to relax your face. Maybe you're doing open mouth breathing. Add some space between those teeth. Sometimes we really just lock into our face, into our jaw. We don't even notice it. And that translates right into the rest of our body. So start here. Start with the face. Relax. And use your breath. Deep breath in. Exhale. Bend the elbows a little deeper. Inhale as you straighten the elbows. Exhale as you bend. You don't have to just come into a static hold. You can absolutely flow. Use your breath. I actually recommend flowing and using your exhales to get deeper into those hamstrings. Inhale as you straighten. And just for your full exhale, bend the elbows. One more round. You're nice. Slowly release. Bring your hands behind you. Fingertips facing forward. Feet are flat. Big breath in. Exhale. Hips go up. Reverse tabletop. And slowly lower it down. You can straighten through the legs. Remove that block from behind you. Slowly lower all the way down. You can find yourself in a nice little shabbasana here. And I will surely let you know when it's time to come out. [Music] [Music] [Music] All right, when you're ready, we'll find a breath in through the nose, a long exhale out, and you can either rock onto either side in fetal pose and then press your way up however you would like your make like to make your way up to a comfortable seated position is up to you. Sitting tall, palms together to your forehead. Just a reminder that this is your control center. Don't let anyone tell you what goes on up here. Especially on social media, things can get really tricky. There's a ton of opinions online. So, I just challenge you to stick with what you know is the truth. to stick with what you know is is right up here. Palms to your lips as a reminder to speak gently, very gently to others. Even if they speak harshly back to you, people are going through invisible battles that we all neither one of us know anything about. None of us know anything about. We're all living different lives, different journeys, different paths. Even if your kindness is met with hostility, still do your job and be kind. It always comes back around. Just be very mindful of what you allow out of here. And then palms to your heart as a reminder that you are loved. You are valued. You are special, important. You are precious. You were intentionally, wonderfully, lovingly created by God. He loves you. He knows you. And he always wants to have a relationship with you. One more breath in through the nose and a long exhale out. You can fl your eyes open. God bless you friends. I hope you enjoyed today's class. If you did, please give it a thumbs up. Let me know your thoughts down below. And I will see you for the next class. Again, happy International Day of Yoga 2025. And I'll see you later. Bye.