Good morning one and all. We welcome you all to the International Day of Yoga Celebrations 2025. As part of international yoga day celebrations, we are organizing yoga sana which is organized by Sri Holistic Health Foundation India and Sri Research Institute Center for Arts, Sciences and Wellbeing. as part of awareness and campaigns of United Nations sustainable development goals 2015 to 2030 and also commemorating and celebrating Azadi Kamrat Mahutsu nation celebrating 77 years of independence and big barat at 2047. 7. So today is a wonderful day and occasion to start union of mind, body and soul which is a wonderful opportunity for us to explore ourself within ourselves and around us the world in which we are. And today we all are part of the world's largest celebrations and commemorations that are happening daily on this platform. So today uh generally we organize in the evening. So today because to start with a good initiative for the day and also as part of the yoga singum procedures across the world international yoga day is celebrated from morning 6:30 to 7:30. So we we have initiated today as a special occasion as we are part of the celebrations. So we'll be having international day of yoga protocol that will be observed as part of the celebrations. So to make it more easier and more convenient and comfortable before we start our session formally. So there are few instructions we request everyone to quickly fill the registration form which has been raised in the form of polls. that helps us to document the participants and it is also an opportunity for you to register for the eert. So the registration form and the feedback form both will be shared in the zoom polls the form of uh polls you can see registration form and after this session you'll also see the feedback form. So it is mandatory that you both fill the registration form and feedback form because that will be accessible only in the zoom platform. So those who are attending are only able to fill the registration and feedback forms by participating or presenting. If you are a trainer or a practitioner, if you would like to make presentations, you are welcome in the today's session either in the morning session after the protocol updates or in the evening session. Even tomorrow, morning and evening total we have four sessions. Four sessions are given e certificates individually. That means if you attend four sessions you'll be getting four e certificates on this occasion. So four sessions are independent to each other and also part of international day of yoga celebrations. So we request and invite and welcome you all to invite your friends. There is no eligibility criteria as such anyone irrespective of age, gender, religion, belief system, their status, education, everyone can join the celebration and be part of this largest celebrations and commemorations of international day of yoga. So let's begin. The session will be live streamed on YouTube. Whenever you want you can go back and check the session and you can follow the protocol. protocol is a standard set of asas. So what we will do is to monitor we will have a standard video which is prepared as part of yoga c day celebration. So we will play the video and we'll all follow the video and we will be doing asas at our own places wherever we are at our comfort online. So you can if you are comfortable you can switch on your video. If you are not comfortable fine you can do it without switching on your videos. So the important thing is that we all are taking an initiative or continuing our initiative for our health and wealth. So we trust each other to be part of this process because this is doing for our own wellbeing. So it is for our own good and also for the welfare of everyone. We are adopting this method and initiative of exploring ourselves within us and around us. So this is a wonderful initiative. So we invite you to share. I know this is a very short time uh maybe it couldn't have reached many but in spite we have posted only in our regular this thing but you can share with your friends and ask them to join immediately and attend four sessions and you can be part of uh this wonderful opportunity and platform where you need not pay anything be organized various programs by various discipline experts and you can also share your knowledge and experience share your experience in this international platform. It is a wonderful opportunity where because universe in the universe everything is abundantly available for our needs not for our greeds. So as long as we are within our need zone, universe has plenty to offer to us. But when we are getting into our greed zone, then we are exploiting. the environment, nature within ourself, outside ourself in the world and that is causing lot of issues. So we have to live in harmony. We have to live in peace within ourself with ourselves and the world around us. So with this message let's all start the initiative of perform yoga asas at your comfort of your home. Make yourself comfortable. If you want to sit down, lie down, just relax. Make yourself comfortable. Wherever you are, it will take some time. So follow the video, follow the instructions to make it understandable by everyone. it generally today the instructions are in English but uh I think verbal orally we can see the video so there wouldn't be any language barrier as we can see the video and perform the asas so there shouldn't be any language barrier as such as the asas are performed. You can perform the yoga asas by yourself and there will be some chants. If you are comfortable, if you are able to recite, you can recite. Otherwise you can do as it as a simple exercise. So it's yoga is not any religious activity or a spiritual activity though it is for the wellbeing but it can be done even without the religious and spiritual element. In fact the religion or the spirituality in the yoga is humanity well-being of all. So we subscribe to this belief that our own wellbe and wellbeing of others. So that is a religion and spirituality that is subscribed to yoga. So we can wherever there are certain aspects religious and spiritual aspects you can follow or you can just blindly continue with the physical ASA as you are comfortable. There is no compulsion that you have to do always the nature never compels us. It's our own freedom, freedom of consciousness that guides us through the journey of our life. So with this few instructions, let's all today begin the journey of yoga shana. So we will take the blessings of almighty and formally start the program and perform the protocol all of us and then after the completion of protocol that is completion of the set video of protocol we'll join back for discussion and sharing of feedback form. So let's stay connected with us. So to maintain the flow and connectivity and avoid any kind of disturbance all the uh mics are disabled because there is uh no need of any interaction because we'll be observing and we'll be doing and we'll be physically engaging with asas. So we'll not be able to interact. So to avoid any inconvenience we are disabling all the audio that is mics of participants as well as video also. If you want you can if you have any specific request that you want to show you a video that's fine you can allow you can put in chat box otherwise it's fine we will uh to avoid any distractions we'll mute all and we will continue the journey after that we will again enable or you can use chat box will be open if you are facing any difficulty you can share share it in the chat box and we will be responding accordingly. So with this introductions let's move ahead and be part of this world's largest international yoga day celebrations. Before we start let's take the blessings of almighty Yana. Jordan Zamb. [Music] With the blessings of Almighty, we shall continue with our commemoration and celebration of International Day of Yoga. Today we all know that yoga was started in India way back as old as the human civilization even before and 11 years back on this Day is also a day of equinox where the day and night will be equal and we have the longest day and it also marks the beginning of summer in the other side of the world. So today we are celebrating international day of yoga on 21st of every year. And this year the theme for 2025 is yoga for one earth and one health. So this year also marks the 11th international day of yoga yoga for one earth one health which echoes the vital truth that the personal wellness and planetary health are inseparable linked. So yoga strengthens the body, calms the mind and fosters a heightened sense of awareness and responsibility in life. This mindfulness allows one to choose healthier and more sustainable lifestyles. In caring for ourselves, we begin to care for the earth. reflect and enduring Indian ethos of the world is one family and we strive and thrive for well-being of not only earth but for all on this planet including humans, animals, plants and all the living and non-living beings. So yoga is an ancient physical, mental and spiritual practice that originated in India. The word yoga derives from the Sanskrit and means to join to unite symbolizing the union of body, mind and consciousness. Today it is practiced in various forms around the world and continues to grow in popularity. It has proven over time and space recognizing its universal appeal. On 11th December 2014, the United Nations proclaimed 21st June as international day of yoga by resolution 69 by 131. So the international day of yoga aims to raise awareness worldwide of the many benefits of practicing yoga. The draft resolution establishing the international day of yoga was proposed by India and endorsed by record 175 member states. The proposal was first introduced by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi Gi in his address during the opening of the 69th session of the General Assembly in which he said yoga is an invaluable gift from our ancient tradition. Yoga embodies unity of mind and body, thought and action. A holistic approach that is valuable to our health and our wellbeing. Yoga is not just about exercise. It's a way to discover explore the sense of oneness within ourselves, the world and the nature. The resolution notes the importance of individuals and populations making their healthier choices and following lifestyle patterns that foster good health. In this regard, the World Health Organization has also urged its member states to help their citizens reduce physical inactivity which is going and also is among the top 10 leading causes of death worldwide and a key risk factor for non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and diabetes. But yoga is more than a physical activity in the world. And in the words of one of its most famous practitioners, the late BK Saianga, yoga cultivates the ways of maintaining a balanced attitude in day-to-day life and it endows skill in the performance of one's actions. Yoga is also an intangible cultural heritage which was inscribed in the representative list of intangible cultural heritage of humanity in 2016. The philosophy behind the ancient Indian practice of yoga has influenced various aspects of how society in India functions. Whether it has been in relation to areas such as health and medicine or education and the arts based on the unifying mind with the body and soul to allow for greater mental, spiritual and physical well-being. The values of yoga form a major part of the community ethos. So with this brief introduction, let's start the yoga protocol and embrace the yoga. So let's follow the video and instructions and do perform asas at our comfort and then after the completion of video we'll come back and share our thoughts and observations and share our feedback and leave for the day and again in the same We will have sessions in the evening also tomorrow morning and tomorrow evening. So s today, Saturday and Sunday, let's use this weekend and let's invite our friends, relatives, colleagues to join these sessions and be part of these celebrations and also get a memory of being participated as a token of gratitude and not release it. So let's begin our journey together. [Music] Namaskar. Antar raki global spirit celebration. orchest. Yogar. Fore coron. Yoga forum. Yog say yog near Yogast. Yasari Mat yoga. Shalom. Yogast. Arinfield. [Music] Inhale serenity. Exhale stress. Reach out to flexibility. Leave behind chronic pains. Shut out the world. Tune in to your inner being. Don't work out only for your body. Work out for your mind, body, and spiritual well-being. Add yoga. Add life to your lifestyle. While addressing the 69th session of United Nations General Assembly on September 27, 2014, the honorable prime minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi, urged the world community to adopt an international day of yog. [Music] Yoga. [Music] [Music] Mort. for [Music] [Music] [Music] due to the government of India concerted efforts. 21st June was established as the International Day of Yog in 2014 supported by a record consensus of 177 co-sponsoring countries in 193 member United Nations General Assembly. In its resolution, the United Nations General Assembly recognized that yog offers a holistic approach to health and well-being while promoting harmony in all aspects of life. This recognition highlighted the need for wider dissemination of information about the benefits of practicing yog and well-being of world population in India. It ushered in an era of holistic health, a revolution based on the principles that prioritize prevention over cure. The ministry of Aayush successfully organized the first international day of yog on 21st June 2015 at Rajput New Delhi where two Guinness world records were made. One for the largest yog session involving around 36,000 participants and the other for maximum number of nationalities with participants from 84 countries in a single yog session. Over the years, the celebration of International Day of Yog has gained momentum worldwide with new enthusiasts taking up this ancient form of well-being year by year. In the year 2016 when the second international day of yog was celebrated in Chundigar another record was created that with largest number of people with disabilities perform yog protocol together. More than 51,000 yog enthusiasts participated in the third international day of yog celebrations at luckno in the year 2017. Yog is essentially a spiritual discipline based on an extremely subtle science which focuses on bringing harmony between mind and body. Yog is a practice that combines art with science to provide a guide for a healthy lifestyle. Nowadays all the sections of the society participate and practice yog throughout the year. Yog has now become a mass movement. The international day of yog or IDY celebrations began 100 days before Idy. Many yog programs are being organized across the globe to mark the celebrations as a public event in these 100 days. Various events like yog at heritage sites, iconic places, guardian ring, ocean ring, yogic to antarctic, yog saga mala, yog bat mala and similar events like these have wider dimensions to ideiize celebrations. The combined efforts and involvement of all stakeholders along with collective approach of the government have made this possible. The practice of common yoke protocol on IDY has become one of the biggest public health practice and initiative which has been adopted by more than 300 million people across the globe. According to its Sanskrit root yuj, the word yog means to join or to unite. And the practice of yog is said to lead to the union of an individual consciousness with the universal consciousness. Yog is widely regarded as an immortal cultural outcome of the Inda Saraswati Valley civilization dating back to 2,700 BC. Although yog was practiced during the prevadic period, it was Maharishi Patanjali who systematized and codified the practices through yog sutras for his invaluable contribution to this field of knowledge. He is known as the father of classic yo. Later many masters contributed to the preservation and development of yo by documenting the practices and spreading them worldwide. Today millions of people across the globe are benefiting from the practice of yog. Recent medical research has shown that regular practice of yog offers a variety of physical and mental benefits working on different levels of an individual such as body, energy, mind and emotion. Each system of yog we practice falls within these categories. These have been further adopted and developed by different schools of yog namely ghan yog, bhakti yog, km yog, patanjal yog, hati yog, kundalini yog, dian yog, mantra yog, lei yog, raj yog, jen yog, bod yog etc. Some of the widely practiced yog sadhan are yam, nam, asan, pranayam, pratyahar, dharana, dyan, samadhi, bund, mudra, shatarm, yuktahar, mantra, yuktagarma, A yog practitioner should follow the guiding principles of yogic practices before the practices. Yogic practices should be performed in a calm and quiet atmosphere with relaxed body and mind. It should be done on an empty stomach or light stomach. Consume a small amount of honey in lukewarm water. If you feel weak, light and comfortable cotton clothes are preferred to facilitate easy movements of the body. In case of chronic diseases or pains or cardiac problems, a physician or yogic expert should be consulted prior to performing yogic practices. During the practices, practice sessions should start with a prayer or invocation as it creates a conducive environment to relax the mind. Yogic practices should be performed slowly in a relaxed manner with awareness of the body and breath. Do not hold the breath unless it is specially mentioned to do so. Do not hold the body tightly or jerk the body. Perform the practices according to your own capacity. End the session with deep silence or shanti part. After the practices, food and bath should be taken only 20 to 30 minutes after the practice. Once prepared, step into the world of yog with mindfulness and avail the benefits of this centuries old wisdom. Let us enter into the world of yog invocation. [Music] [Laughter] [Music] Oh, [Music] sach. Sad. [Music] Some John [Music] [Music] sana sana. pass. [Music] [Music] Let's start yoga with yogic suksha viram or loosening practices to increase micro circulation. [Music] Neck movements forward and backward neck bending. Caution avoid this practice in case of severe cervical spondilitis. [Music] Start with alert posture samastiti. Stand with feet 2 to 3 in apart. Keep the hands straight beside the body. Now keep the hands on the waist. While exhaling, move the head forward slowly and try to touch the chest with the chin. As you inhale, bring the head to the center position. While exhaling, move the head backward comfortably. Bring the head to the center position. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Right and left neck bending. Caution. Do not overstrain during this practice. While exhaling, bend the head slowly to the right and bring the ear as close as possible to the shoulder without raising it. Experience stretching on the left side. As you inhale, bring the head to the center position. While exhaling, bend the head slowly to the left side. Experience stretching on the right side. Inhale and bring the head to the center position. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Right and left neck twisting. Caution. Do not jerk the neck. Keep the head upright. While exhaling, gently turn the head to the right so that the chin is in line with the shoulder. As you inhale, bring the head to the center position. While exhaling, gently turn the head to the left. Feel or experience stretching on the right side. Inhale and bring the head to the center position. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Neck rotation. Caution. People with neck pain and cervical spondylosis do this practice carefully. Exhale. Bend the head forward trying to touch the chest with the chin. Inhale slowly. Rotate the head clockwise in a circular motion and exhale while coming down. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Then rotate the head in an anticlockwise direction. Inhale. Go back. Exhale and come down. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Inhale and bring your head to the center position. Exhale. Bring the arms down and relax. Shoulder movements. Shoulders and arms movement. Caution. Frozen shoulder patients should do this practice carefully. Start with alert posture samastiti. Stand with feet 2 to 3 in apart. Place the hands by the sides. Keep the fingers together pointing downwards. While inhaling, move both the arms from the sides up above the head with the palms facing outward. Exhale and bring them down. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Shoulder rotation. Stand straight. Inhale and raise both the arms up to the shoulder level by the sides. Bend the arms at the elbows. Place the fingers on the respective shoulders. Try to touch the elbows in front of the chest and then rotate both the elbows and shoulders in a circular manner. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Inhale while raising the arms and exhale as you bring them down. Repeat the same in a reverse manner for two times. Inhale while raising the arms and exhale as you bring them down. Now inhale and stretch the elbows by the sides. Exhale. Bring the arms down and relax. Trunk movement. Trunk twisting. Caution in case of vertebral disorders do this practice under guidance. Start from the alert posture. Stand with feet about 1 ft apart. Raise arms to the chest level facing each other and keep them parallel. While exhaling, twist the body towards the right side so that the left palm is close to the right shoulder. Come back as you inhale. While exhaling, rotate the trunk and spine towards the left side. Come back with inhalation. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Slowly bring the arms and feet back together. As you exhale, relax. Knee movement. Caution. In case of arthritis and obesity, do this practice carefully. Start in an alert posture. Then keep the feet one foot apart. Inhale. Move the arms up the shoulder level from the front with palms facing downwards. Exhale. Bend the knees and bring down your body to the half squatting position. In the final position, both the arms and thighs should remain parallel to the ground. Come back as you inhale. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Come back with inhalation. Slowly return the arms as you exhale and bring the feet together. Relax. Let's now move towards yogasan, standing postures. Tarasan, the palm tree posture. Caution, avoid lifting heels in case of arthritis, varicose vein or vertigo. Alert posture. Stand with feet two to three inches apart. Place hands by the sides. Inhale. Lift the arms to the shoulder level from the front and interlock the fingers. Exhale. Turn the palm outwards. Now inhale and stretch the arms over your head. Raise the heels off the floor and balance on the toes. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Bring the heels down. Release the interlock of the fingers. Exhale. Bring the arms down by the sides and come back to the starting position. Relax. Vikasan the three posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of arthritis, vertigo or obesity. Stand in alert posture and focus on a point in front. Exhale. Move the right leg up and place the foot on the inner side of the left thigh. The heel should be in contact with the perennium. Inhale. Extend the arms up and join the palms together in namaskar mudra. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Bring the arms down. Release the right leg and bring it to the starting position. Repeat on the other side. Exhale. Move the left leg up and place the foot on the inner side of the right thigh. The heel should be in contact with the perennium. Inhale and extend the arms up. Bringing the palms together in namaskar mudra. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Bring the arms down. Release the left leg and bring it to the starting position. Relax. Pad hastasan or the hands to the feet posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of cardiac spinal disorders or glaucoma. Assume standing position with feet 2 in apart. Inhale slowly. Raise the arms upward from the front and stretch up the body from the waist. Exhale and bend forward at the level of the hip joint until both the palms rest on the ground. [Music] Stretch the back to make it as straight as possible. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Slowly inhale and come up to the upright position while stretching the arms above the head. Exhale slowly. Bring down the arms and return to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Arda chakrasan or the half wheel posture. Caution. Avoid this posture in case of vertigo or cardiac problems. Stand with feet 2 in apart. Support the back at the sides of the waist with fingers. Try to keep the elbows parallel to each other. Inhale. Drop the head backwards while stretching the front side of the neck. As you exhale, bend backward from the lumbar region. Maintain the final position for 3 to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale and slowly come up. Exhale and return to the starting position. Relax. Trionasan, the triangle posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of slip disc, sciatica or after abdominal surgery. Assume the alert posture and step the feet 3 ft apart. Inhale and raise both the arms from the sides up to the shoulder level with palm facing outwards. Turn the right foot towards the right side. Exhale slowly. Bend to the right side and place the right hand just behind the right foot. Turn your head and gaze at the tip of the left middle finger. The left arm is straight in line with the right arm. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale slowly. Come up [Music] and bring the right foot back. Repeat on the other side. Turn the left foot towards the left side. Exhale. Slowly bend to the side and place the left hand just behind the left foot. Turn your head and gaze at the tip of the right middle finger. The right arm is straight in line with the left arm. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale slowly come up [Music] and bring left foot back. Exhale. Bring the arms down and feet together. Come to the starting position and relax. Badrasan. The firm posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of severe arthritis or sciatica. Start with visamasan. Support the back with hands. Body should be relaxed in a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front. Keep the hands beside the hips and palms resting on the floor. This is dandasan. Now bring the soles of the feet together. Exhale. Clasp the toes with the hands. Inhale. Put your heels as close as possible to the perennium region. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Release the hands and stretch out the legs in the front. Support the back with hands. Relax. Vajrasan the diamond posture. Caution those who are suffering from knee pain or ankle injury should avoid this practice. Start with long sitting posture. Sit straight with legs stretched out in the front. Palms resting on the ground, fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place both the feet in such a way so that the big toes touch each other. Position of the buttocks is in the space between the heels and the feet. Keep hands on your respective knees or thighs. Keep the back straight. Gaze in front or close the eyes. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. When returning to the starting point, bend a little towards the right side to take out your leg and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Arda rasan the half camel posture. Caution in case of hernia, abdominal injuries, arthritis or vertigo. Please avoid doing this asan. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front and palms resting on the ground with fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on the respective knees. Stand on your knees. Place the hands on your back with fingers pointing downwards. Keep the elbows parallel. Inhale. Bend the head back and stretch the neck. Exhale. Bend the trunk backwards as much as possible. Keep the thigh perpendicular to the ground. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Come back to kneeling position. Exhale. Sit in vajrasan. Bend a little towards the right side to take out your left leg and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Oshtrasan the camel posture. Caution. Those suffering from hernia should not practice this asan. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with legs stretched out in the front, palms resting on the ground and fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on respective knees and stand on your knees. Now bring the knees and feet a few inches apart. While inhaling, bend backwards without jerking the neck. Exhale. Place the right palm on right heel and left palm on left heel. Weight of the body should be evenly supported by the arms and legs. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale, come back to kneeling position. Exhale, sit in vajrasan. Bend a little towards the right side to take the left leg out and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Shashakasan the hair posture. Caution. Avoid this posture in case of osteoarthritis of the knees. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front, palms resting on the ground and fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on respective knees. Inhale. Spread both the knees wide apart. Place the palms between the knees. Exhale. Bend forward with arms outstretched and place the chin on the ground. Keep the arms parallel. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Come up [Music] and close the knees together. Bend a little towards the right side to take the left leg out and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Utan mandukasan. The stretched up frog posture. Caution. Patients with osteoarthritis of the knees should avoid kneeling position. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front, palms resting on the ground and fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on respective knees. Spread the knees wide apart. Inhale. Slowly raise the arms upward from the front. Exhale. Fold them from the elbow and place the palms on alternate shoulder blades. Right palm on left shoulder blade and left palm on right shoulder blade. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Now inhale and raise the arms up. Exhale bring the arms down and close the knees together. Bend a little towards the right side to take the left leg out and extend it. Similarly extend the right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Vakrasen the seated twist posture. Caution avoid this posture in case of acute back pain or spinal disorders. Start with long sitting posture. Sit with the back straight and legs stretched out in front. Bend the right leg and place the right foot beside the left knee. Place the right palm beside the body. Bring the left arm around the right knee and place the palm beside the right foot. Inhale. Stretch the back. Exhale. Turn the body and head to the right. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale and come back. We will now repeat the same on the left side. Bend the left leg and place the left foot beside the right knee. Place the left palm beside the body. Bring the right arm around the left knee and place the palm beside the left foot. Inhale. Stretch the back. Exhale. Twist the head and body to the left. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Come back to the starting position. Relax. [Music] [Music] Prone postures. Makrasen. The crocodile posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of pregnancy and frozen shoulder. Start with vajrasan. Slowly lie down on the stomach with feet together and toes pointing outwards. Place the chin on the ground. Stretch your arms forward. Open the feet apart with toes pointing sideways. Bend your elbows and rest the chin on the hands. Lift the head up and place your cheek on the hands. Close the eyes and allow the entire body to relax. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Remain aware of the body and breathing. Bjangasan the cobra posture. Caution those suffering with hernia or stomach ulcers should not practice this asan. Start with macakarasan. Now join the legs. Stretch your arms forward and rest the chin on the ground. Now place your palms beside the chest and elbows close to the body. Inhale slowly and lift the head and chest up to the naval region with the help of spinal muscles. Keep the elbows parallel. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Bring the head down and rest your chin on the ground. Relax in macarasan. Shalhasan the locust posture. Caution. Patients with severe lower back pain, peptic ulcer, hernia or cardiac should avoid this posture. Start with macakarasan. Now join the legs and place both hands beside the body, palms facing downwards. Inhale and lift both the legs off the floor without bending the knees. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale and bring the legs down to the floor. Relax in macakarasan. Supine postures. Setu banhasan. The bridge posture. Caution. If you have stomach ulcers or hernia, it is not recommended to practice this asan. Lie down on the ground. Stretch out your legs comfortably and place the palms facing downwards. Bend both the legs at the knees and bring the heels near the buttocks while holding both the ankles as per your convenience. Inhale slowly raise your buttocks and trunk up as much as you can to form a bridge and maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Slowly bring your hips down and straighten the legs in supine position. Relax. Utan padasan. The raised leg posture. Caution. Individuals with hypertension should practice this by alternating between legs. Lie comfortably on the ground with legs stretched out. Hands placed by the sides and palms facing down. While inhaling, slowly raise both legs without bending them at the knees until you are able to see the tips of toes. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale slowly. Bring both legs down and place them on the ground. Relax. Arda halasan. The half plow posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of abdominal injuries, hernia or lumbosacral pains. Lie comfortably on the ground with legs stretched out. Keep hands placed by the side and palms facing down. Inhale slowly raise both the legs without bending them at the knees and bring them vertical to the ground. The body from hip to shoulder should be kept straight. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale slowly. Bring the legs down to the ground without lifting the head. Relax. Pavan mktasan. The wind-freeing posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of abdominal injuries, hernia, sciatica or severe back pain. Lie comfortably on the ground with legs stretched out, hands placed by the sides and palms facing downwards. Bend both the knees. Exhale. Bring the knees towards the chest. Inhale. Interlock the fingers and clasp the shin below knees. Exhale. Raise the head up until the chin or nose touches the knees. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Bring the head back to the ground. Exhale. Release the legs back to the floor. Lie down in supine position. [Music] Relax. [Music] Shavasan, the corpse posture. Lie down on the ground. Open the feet apart with toes pointing sideways and palms facing upwards. Close your eyes. Consciously relax the whole body. Become aware of the natural flow of breath. It will tend to become slow. Remain in the position until you feel refreshed and relaxed. [Music] While coming back, slowly stretch your arm over the head and join the feet. Then turn by the side either right or left and come back to the sitting position with the support of the hands. [Music] Kapal bhi. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of cardiac conditions, epilepsy, hernia, gastric ulcer or during menstrual cycle. Sit in any comfortable position. Keep the spine and head straight with eyes closed. Place the hands on the knees in ghan mudra. Inhale deeply through both the nostrils till you start to experience fullness in the pelvic region and expansion in the chest. Expel the breath with forceful contractions of the lower abdominal muscles and let the inhalation be passive. Let us begin the first round of kapal bhhati with 20 strokes. [Music] Exhale deeply and relax. This is one round of kapal bhhati. Repeat two more rounds with 20 strokes each. [Music] Nari shodhan praarayam the alternate nostril breathing start with sitting in any comfortable posture. Breath should be slow, steady and controlled. Keep spine and head straight with the eyes closed. Relax the body with few deep breaths. Keep the left palm on the left knee in gan mudra and the right hand should be in pranaya mudra with the middle and the index fingers folded like this. Close the right nostril with the right thumb and exhale completely. Now inhale through the left nostril. Recognize the touch of air moving through your body as pra. Then close the left nostril with the ring and little finger of the right hand and exhale through the right nostril. Now inhale through the right nostril. Close the right nostril with the thumb and exhale through the left nostril. This is one round of nari shodhan. Repeat it for four more rounds.  pranayam. Caution. People suffering from cough, cold or tonsillitis should avoid the practice of this pranayam. Sit in any comfortable posture. Keep the spine and head straight with eyes closed. Place the hands on the knees in ghan mudra. Roll up the tongue and shape it as a tube. Inhale maximum air through the tongue. Take the tongue inside the mouth and close the mouth. Then slowly exhale through the nostrils. This is one round of pranayam. Repeat it for four rounds. [Music] Brahri pranayam. Sit in any comfortable posture. Keep the spine and head straight with eyes closed. Place the hands on the knees in gan mudra and inhale deeply through the nose. Exhale slowly making a deep humming sound. [Laughter] Repeat one more round. [Music] Practice the brahri pranayam with shmuki mudra. Using your index fingers, gently close your eyes. Then place your middle finger beside your nose without fully covering it. Place your ring finger on your upper lip and your pinky finger on your lower lip. Finally, rest your thumbs on your ears as demonstrated in the video. Inhale deeply through the nose. Exhale slowly making a deep humming sound. [Laughter] [Music] Repeat one more round. Dan, sit in any comfortable position. Place the hands on the knees in ghan mudra. Close your eyes. Now adopt dhan mudra [Music] and sit in a slightly upturned phase. You need not concentrate. Just maintain a mild focus between the eyebrows and be conscious of your breath. Let them flow freely. Just observe the flow. If impossible, let the thoughts dissolve. [Music] [Music] [Laughter] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Now time for us to take salp. I commit myself to remain in a balanced state of mind all the time. It is in this state that my development reaches its greatest possibility. I commit to do my duty to the self, family, at work, to society and to the world for the promotion of peace, health and harmony. Yoga practice would end with Shanti part or the universal prayer for everyone's peace and prosperity. [Music] SH [Music] maya. [Music] to mash. [Music] [Music] Oo shanty shanty [Music] shanty. [Music] [Music] Hey, [Music] hey, hey. [Music] [Music] Hey, hey, hey. [Music] [Music] with this wonderful beginning of the day with yoga asas and yoga kria. We welcome you all. for this 2 days international yoga day celebrations. So like this we will be following the international day of yoga protocol and we'll be doing asas with the comfort of our homes office wherever we are today and tomorrow that is on Sunday as well tomorrow today Saturday and tomorrow Sunday morning 6:00 and evening 6:00 we'll be watching the instructions and we'll be doing at our comfort. So you may or may not switch on video but we trust upon each other because this is a practice that we are doing for our health and wellbeing and also not only just for ourselves but the universal health and wellbeing. So we will continue this journey even in the evening tomorrow morning and evening. So you all can join with the same joining link. This link remains same for all the events organized by this organization which is the world's largest and daily free commemorations and celebrations which is an international platform and that is only one such unique kind of organization in the entire world where we organize every day with various commemorations and celebrations. s. So be part of this wonderful celebrations and after these four sessions each four each session all the participants or presenters you can also present or you live or you can record your video of protocol protocol if you want you can uh request us we will send you or you can visit the official website of Aish where you will get the booklet of protocol. Protocol is same the list of asas in the order which has been mentioned even demonstrated in this video. So if you are not able to join at this time due to time constraints we understand that in the huzzle and buzzle of our life we are not able to join at this particular time. That's why we have provided an opportunity for all of us. If you are not able to join live these two days, you can do it whenever you are free and you can record it and upload it to your Google drive and then send us a link along with your details like your name, designation, organization and place frame where you are joining along with your contact number, email id which will be helpful you know an identification along with your photograph so that we can also issue the certificate. So this 2 days we'll have wonderful opportunity. There is no restriction of age cast religion belief system educational social status or cultural status everyone can join. We request you to invite your friends also to be part be part of this wonderful celebrations and commemorations and let's be part of this wonderful commemorations which is once in a lifetime opportunity. Not everyone gets an opportunity. We are all fortunate to be part of together the like-minded souls who are willing to do something. So let's utilize this opportunity and now we shall close this session with the sharing of feedback form and we will come back again in the evening. So evening we will spend more time from 6 onwards with the same joining link and tomorrow also morning because morning we all need to rush upon. So morning we'll spend less time but evenings you can prepare and send us if there is any presentation or you can contact us by visiting the website once you you can see the website address on the screen you can visit or even in the YouTube channel also we have our website address. Once you visit you can get all the details and there if you want to make a presentations you can contact us and we will arrange and those who are willing to present they can share your details in chat box and we will permit you after the protocol. So four sessions you'll be getting four different certificates where you can attend one or more sessions. So it's better you attend all the sessions so that uh you get all the session certificates and also encourage there is nothing you just take time for yourself be part of this celebration maybe for one two hours and just follow the instructions and do the asas wherever you are however you are comfortable either lie down on the floor or sit on the chair or wherever you are comfortable. Even if you are not able to do perform asas, just listen, watch while doing your household course or office course, whatever you are doing. just be part of this physically or psychologically, emotionally or socially also by connecting with each other on this celebrations. So we request everyone now we are closing the registration form and we'll be launching the feedback form. This marks your attendance because this is the way only way we have your details for preparing the certificate. So certificates will be issued in a week's time and will be updated on the website. The simple format is join the session, fill the registration form and also fill the feedback form. So if you are not able to fill any of the form don't worry but continue to attend and mark your attendance in whatever way possible and also ensure that you are entering your details properly correctly because sometimes it happens that you'll be joining with some name or not full name or partial name or device name that's why we have a column once you join you can see your name in the top list in the participants list. So that is your name as you are joining in the session. So as is if you can mention no that will be easy for us to identify and recognize that as you as you have filled the registration form and feedback form for issuing certificate to map your attendance. So ensure that you are joining with the same name as you want in your certificates. You can rename it before joining. After joining you cannot do that due to security reasons. But before joining you ensure otherwise also if you if there is any such issue while filling the forms make sure that you are exactly by saying and typing how you have joined. So that will ensure that your attendance is marked properly. So let's all join together with more strength. You can also watch on YouTube and be part of this largest yoga day celebrations. So see you all in the evening with the same joining link at 6 p.m. Have a great day. Boom. Shut. After filling the feedback form, you may leave the platform. Thank you everyone for joining us and sparing your valuable time in the morning. Don't worry, everyone will be getting the certificates in a week's time. Ensure that you are providing your details correctly completely through registration and feedback forms. So see you all in the evening session and also tomorrow's sessions. Take care. Have a great week. We'll be closing the session in 5 minutes. We request everyone to quickly fill up the feedback form and after the filling of the feedback form, you may leave the platform. We'll all meet again in the evening at 6 p.m. with the same joining. Take care.