Good evening one and all. We welcome you all to the international webinar series on holistic health well-being and sustainable development 2025 commemorating Azadi Kamut Mahudso nation celebrating 77 years of independence and united nation sustainable development goals 2015 to 2030 and Vixbarat at 2047 and today is an wonderful occasion. We have gathered on international yoga day 2025 and also celebrating yoga sangab celebrations today and also today is also commemorated as solstice where the day and night is equal and we have a wonderful opportunity to have celebrations going on international as part of awareness and campaigns in collaboration with Sri Holistic Health Foundation India and Sri Research Institute Center for Art Sciences and wellbeing. So before we start our sessions, let's take the blessings of almighty Young people come [Music] [Music] So with the blessings of almighty we shall continue with today's commemorations starting with international day of yoga And we'll conclude with few yogasas. So let's see today what we are commemorating and which is a wonderful day for us. Today is also commemorated as world day of music which also coincides with international day of yoga along with world giraffe day which is also in harmony and world humanist day and also world hydrography day and so on. So this coincides with lot of celebrations today. So every year 21st June is celebrated and commemorated as international day of yoga at United Nations and across the world. So this year the theme for 2025 is yoga for one earth and one health. This year marks the 11th anniversary that is 11th international day of yoga with the theme yoga for one earth and one health which echoes the vital truth that personal wellness and planetary health are inseparably linked. Yoga strengthens the body, calms the mind and fosters a heightened sense of awareness and responsibility in daily life. This mindfulness allows one to choose healthier and more sustainable lifestyles. In caring for ourselves, we began to care for our earth. Reflecting the enduring Indian ethos of the world is one family and we all belong to one family. fostering brotherhood and sister, motherhood and father and so many relations intertwine as a family. So yoga is an ancient physical, mental and spiritual practice that originated in India. And the word yoga derives from Sanskrit and means to join or to unite symbolizing the union of body and consciousness. Today it is practiced in various forms around the world and continues to grow in popularity. Recognizing its universal appeal on 11th December 2014, the United Nations proclaimed 21st June as international day of yoga wide resolution 69 by 131. The international day of yoga aims to raise awareness worldwide of the many benefits of practicing yoga. The draft resolution establishing the international day of yoga was proposed by India and endorsed by a record 175 member states that is 175 countries. The proposal was first introduced by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi GI in his address during the opening of the 69th session of the general assembly in which he said yoga is an invaluable gift from our ancient tradition. Yoga embodies unity of mind and body, thought and action. A holistic approach that is valuable to our health and our well-being. Yoga is not just about exercise. It is a way to discover the sense of oneness with yourself, the world and the nature. The resolution notes the importance of individuals and populations making healthier choices and following lifestyle patterns that foster good health. In this regard, the World Health Organization has also urged its member states to help their citizen reduce physical inactivity, which is among the top 10 leading causes of death worldwide and a key risk factor for non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and yoga is also an intangible Able cultural heritage yoga was inscribed on the present representative list of the intangible cultural heritage of humanity in 2016. The philosophy behind the ancient practice of yoga has influenced various aspects of how yoga in India functions. Whether it has been in relation to areas such as health and medicine or education and the arts based on the unifying mind with the body and soul to allow to greater mental, spiritual and physical well-being. The values of yoga from a major part of the community. Sithos World Health Organization launches mobile app for yoga in collaboration with government of India known as WHM Yoga a yoga app to help people stay active and health. So the app contains a collection of videos and audio files to teach and accompany yoga practices and is an easy to use free tool for both people who are trying yoga for the first time and for those who have already or who are already practicing yoga regular. The app was developed by Be Healthy, B Mobile, a joint initiative between the World Health Organization and the International Telecommunication Union. So now you have your own guru with you in your mobile. So start yoga if you haven't started or if you are already doing yoga spend more time in yoga that will improve your health and wellbeing. So as part of international day of yoga celebrations we have a yoga protocol a series of asas with the warm different asas as per the order which can be helpful when practiced every day. So these asas and the entire program is available as common yoga protocol which is available in 22 languages in India which are constitutionally recognized including English, Hindi, Telugu, Assam, Bengali, Bordo, Marathi, Manipuri, Malalam, Maiti, Konani Canada, Koshu, Gujarati, Dri, Udu, Tamil, Cindi, Santali, Punjabi, Odia, Nepali and Sansk. So you can follow the instructions in your own language on the app or by watching the video. You can also perform yoga at your comfort and ease. So this year and every year we are organized yoga sangum as part of international day of yoga here. We have various events like yoga sang, yoga bund, yoga path, yoga samish, yoga prabhawa, yoga connect, hariti yoga, yoga unplak and samy yoga. These are the signature events. that are organized across the world and especially across the India on this international day of yoga. So at as part of this we are also organizing yoga sa as part of this initiative. So the ministry of Aish established on November 9th, 2014 aims to revive and promote India's ancient medical systems. Initially formed as a department of ISM and H in 1995, it was renamed in 2003 to focus on education and research in Ayurveda, yoga, naturopathy, urani, siddha and homeopathy. So there are various courses offered as part of yoga education and research. like MSE yoga, BSE yoga, post-graduate diploma in yoga therapy for medic and paramedics, diploma in yoga science for graduates, DYC basic course in sharma practices, and certificate course in yoga for wellness instructor. Certificate course in yoga science for special interest group. Certificate course in yoga for protocol instructor. Foundation course in yoga science for wellness and weekend foundation course and so on. So these can be done online as well as offline with the designated centers. The yoga sang is one among the signature events of the international day of yoga. It is a special effort to mark the occasion of completion of a decade of international day of yoga observation aiming to expand yoga's grassroot reach and to ensure that everyone can access its wealth and yoga connect is a special effort to mark the occasion on completion of the decade of international day yoga observation by bringing together yoga experts, policy makers and other thought leaders from across the world to deliberate upon various aspects of the broader practice of yoga. Hariti yoga is one aiming to integrate environmental sustainability with traditional yoga practices. Yoga and blend aims to make yoga more adequate and engaging for young people. Yoga Mahaku is one among the signature events. A week-long festival of yoga aimed at bringing together hundreds of thousands of people in 10 different cities in an unprecedented celebration of yoga. Some yoga is an initiative aimed at highlighting the translation of evidence-based yoga practices into contemporary healthcare systems. So these signature events like yoga bund which in which India builds a coalition of yoga with partner countries through a unique cultural exchange in Bali. Yoga based activities and yoga park aiming to leave behind a positive legacy of international day of yoga 2025 in the form of creation of community assets and yoga samavish designed to take the rewards of yoga to diverse and often and deserved communities. and yoga prabhawa. An impact assessment will be carried out to assess the outcomes of decade of international day yoga of yoga observance on public health and related areas. So all these are a scientific basis of evaluating the impact awareness programs taken over the decade of international day of yoga celebrations and various initiatives to bring children, teens, youth, adults and the aged all under the practice of yoga to improve their health and wellbeing. Soakrishna machara is one of the important figures in popularizing yoga worldwide. Yoga was popular when Swami G viveandh gi visited America. He was a philosopher and a monk. He was most famous for his powerful speech to the world parliament of religions in 1893. After his moving speech, he organized world conferences and rose in popularity. He introduced yoga to the world and called it the science of mind. He also translated various yogic test from Sanskrit to English. Although he died at a young age, he started a train carried on by other eminent personalities. If Vivebeanandha took yoga to the world, people like Krishna Machara made it popular in India even among the common and the lay man. Indra Dvi, Vikram Chowri and BK Saianga also helped in promoting and taking yoga to the grassroot level so that everyone is benefited from yoga and can improve their health and wellbeing by practicing yoga. So that Narendra Modi GI suggested the international day of yoga and it continues to be a global celebration by officially recognized by the United Nations and its member states. So yoga practices are time memorial have the evidences from Indas Valley civilization for spiritual and physical upliftment. Patanjali the birth of yoga sutras is the foundation text of yoga. In the speech of Swami Viveananda which is historical calls for an end to religious tolerance and fanaticism. In 1893 Swami Viveananda publishes the book Raja Yoga his interpretation of Patangjali yoga sutras in English in 1896. So the first world starts celebrating June 21st as international day of yoga in 2014 15. So various research shows yoga is safe as any other normal exercises even better than yoga aims to boost the health of body, mind and soul. Therefore the main goal of international day of yoga is to raise awareness about the various yogic practices and their purposes. Yoga is Sanskrit word that means the union of the individual with body that is body mind and soul and cosmic consciousness. The result of this union is a harmony of body, mind and soul and also with the nature and environment within us and around us. So spend your day practicing the art of yoga. Try different yoga postures and meditation and without from having non-vegetarian food. So buy original books written by Swami Viveananda about yoga. Try to understand the concepts of yoga and how it can benefit your overall health. If you are starting yoga freshly because that is there are the original sources from which you can learn a lot. Then you can buy some you know modernday books which just simply guide without any scientific background or philosophical background of the text of the yoga because unless and until you understand the science behind yoga you will not be able to leverage the benefits and definitely to get the correct details of yoga you need to always refer to the original text. So Rishkh is a place in India which is self-proclaimed yoga capital of the world and is considered the birthplace of yoga based on few evidences. There are approximately 6,000 yoga studios in the US to teach yoga as aspiring individuals. By this you can see the popularity of yoga in the most developed nations and powerful nations. Certain countries which are fanatic, certain politicians which are fanatic, religious intolerance have banned yoga on religious grounds, chanting mantras and all. But still yoga is practiced without mantras because yoga is not religious though it can be part of a religious activity but yoga can be performed without religion. So that is the greatness of the ancient traditional knowledge systems and ancient practices that you can leverage the benefits by addition or you can practice it in a simple form. So depending on how much benefit you want to get it from it, you can do it as a simple exercise or can leverage the benefit with combination of sounds, mantras and so on. So any religion, any belief system or any follower, any gender, any cast, any creed, irrespective, one can follow yoga because yoga is not just physical activity. It is also mental activity, psychological and emotional activity. And irrespective of any religion or belief system, it is beneficial for everyone. So yoga is for healing and is still widely used as a complimentary therapy in various medical centers. So it's a great stress relief. Yoga can provide stress relief for those who practice it daily when correctly. Meditation and yoga postures can greatly impact mental wellness and physical wellness. Yoga moves your muscles and burns some unwanted calories. Regularly practicing yoga can help improve your immune system, defenses of your body and flexibility. Yoga was initially a practice for spiritual enlightenment. It is a practice that is thousands of years of old and still survives. So you can bet you can get lot of benefits starting from simple physical activity to the spiritual alignment. Now it's up to you how you are going to use yoga just to increase physical activity and metabolic activity or to take it to the highest potential. So yoga provides a wonderful opportunity for everyone. So today is also commemorated as international day of celebration of soul styles which is an embodiment of the unity of cultural heritage and centuries long traditions. Culture is the set of distinctive spiritual, material, intellectual and emotional features of society or a social group and it encompasses in addition to art and features of society. Literature, lifestyles, ways of living together, value systems, traditions and beliefs. Thus, culture is at the heart of contemporary debates about identity, social cohesion, and the development of a knowledge based economy. Therefore, in our increasingly diverse societies, it is essential to ensure harmonious interaction among people and groups with plural, varied, and dynamic cultural identities as well as their willingness to live together. In this sense, cultural diversity is a common heritage of humanity and it should be recognized and affirmed for the benefit of the present and future generations. Mindful that the souls dasis and equinoxes symbolize the fertility of the land, agricultural and food production systems, cultural heritage and their millinary traditions. The general assembly of the United Nations acknowledged that the celebration of those events is an embodiment of the unity of the cultural heritage and centuries long traditions and further play a significant role in strengthening the ties among peoples on the basis of mutual respect and ideals of peace and good neighborliness. It is therefore recognized 21st June as the international day of celebration of the soul stice. A soul stice derived from the Latin word soul that means sun and sister to stand still because the seasonal movement of the sun dies path as seen from the earth appears to stand still at northern or southern limit before reversing direction. It is an event that occurs when the sun reaches its most northerly or southerntherly day arc relative to the equator. Therefore, there are two solstice that occur annually around June 21st, commonly known as summer solstice for being the first day of summer and the longest day of the year and December 21st commonly known as the winter solstice for being the first day of winter and the shortest day of the year. Generally, this is applicable to west in rivers. It is applicable to east because based on the rotation of the earth and sun facing the earth. So on the on the other hand an equinox derived from the Latin equinox from aquous equal and no night is commonly regarded as instant when the center of the visible sun is directly above the equator and this occurs twice each year around 20 March called spring equinox as it marks the beginning of spring in most cultures and 23rd September called autumnal equinox as it marks the beginning of autumn. So the equinox are the only times when the solar terminator the edge between right night and day is perpendicular to the equator and hence daytime and nighttime are of approximately equal duration. So the solstis together with the equinoxes are connected with seasons, harvest and livelihood. Therefore, many cultures celebrate various combinations of the solstice, the equinoxes and the midpoints between them leading to various holidays arising around these events. So, Hinduism and Sanatana Dharma has a great knowledge of all these that's why even yoga day is also commemorated today on this wonderful occasion. leverage the benefits thousands of years ago itself. Today is also commemorated as international surfing day which is celebrated on 3rd Saturday in June and takes place on June 21st this year. It is an environmentally conscious day that celebrates surfing and the sustainability of ocean and resources. It also promotes surfing and encourages more people to dive into this fun sport. Surfing can be traced back about 5,000 years and is not just a sport but a hobby and a lifestyle and it's a pastime found on all populated continent. See here you can uh you see that generally it is a you know a kind of style that is used you know 5,000 years as standard but generally that means to here referred to as oldest. Generally not everything is 5,000 years old like ancient systems are more than 5,000 years old and uh like this are maybe they are as old as 2,000 years or 3,000 years because sailing is something different. Surfing sailing in its modern form. Earlier people used to sail and surf in a different way because at that time people used to travel on boats and ships of those times and use different uh materials natural materials for conducting various activities in water bodies. So that's why it is also important to understand the context. So this day was initiated in 2005 by surfing magazine and the surf rider foundation to promote the sport of surfing as well as educate people about the negative impact of their activities on the ocean and environment. On International Surfing Day, various activities are held such as surfing contest and other fun surf centered activities. Several groups also organize beach cleanups and other restorative activities as a way of contributing positively to the environ. Body surfing like existed since human beings began swimming the ocean. However, surfing with the assistance of apparatus has been praised on ancient cultures of Peru where people served on reef watercraft for recreational and fishing purposes. Modern surfing with the use of surfing boards however originates from pre pre-conian Hawaii which was introduced to the innovation by the Polynesians and so on in the west. So there's no better way to celebrate by protecting the environment by organizing a beach cleanup to get rid of pollutants that might contaminate the ocean. Let's keep our environment clean and healthy. Today is also commemorated as world day of music. Most of us have innate understanding of music. Even if we can't play an instrument or even sing, somehow we can connect with the rhythms and melodies. Even plants understand music. So they tend to grow faster after a generous helping of classical music and world day of music or feed the llamas as it is known in the west celebrated on each year. on June 21st was first started in France but today highlights music universal is meant to make music more inclusive and encourage people of varying skill levels to interact a lot more with all types of tunes. World Day of Music is an opportunity for musicians to build their presence and connect with their audience from the oldest musical instruments in the world that is flutes and various devices to the present day electronic instruments. Music has become a significant part of our daily lives. Even with yoga, music is a very good combination apart from mantras and various other sounds because sound mantra is also sound arithmic pattern of sound. So music is also arithmic pattern of sounds. So here it brings people together and breaking barriers and boundaries through music. Over the past few years the festival gained international popularity eventually being celebrated by more than 120 countries around the world. This day evolved to finally become the world day of music or international music day. So on this day start learning music no matter what music you are learning but always try to learn traditional music which is more beneficial than the modern day music but if you are not able to afford or access then whatever music in whatever form you are comfortable with you can pursue it. Don't worry, everyone's a beginner at some point. So, learn an instrument. Nowadays, even gadgets also have lot of uh apps that help you learn instruments using mobile. You know initially you can start using some uh mobile if you don't have access to instrument and then once you are comfortable you can buy some instruments or you know donate some instruments if you have more or you can also gift some instruments who are willing to help. Of course there is a difference between playing on gadgets or and also playing on real music instruments but still as a starter it's a wonderful without much investment and within the existing infrastructure everyone can learn music and there are also free online music classes and videos available on various platforms you can also learn and that also promotes peace and wellbe. But today is also commemorated as world humanist day also known as the day of the Jun stance and June 21st is the day humanist around the world organize conferences, parties and gatherings to promote their values. Humanists create awareness and dispel misinformation about humanism as a philosophical view and means to inspire a positive change in the world. Historians have traced the origin of humanism to early years of the Renaissance period with scholars in Italy and the West. Initially, it was primarily a literary movement as early humanists believed that education would cultivate cultural consciousness and ethical values. Humanism evolved into a phil philosophical approach to the life that is primarily concerned how humans relate to the world believe in ethical principles and prioritize human welfare and happiness. Humanism was originally called humanitas denoting the development of all forms of human virtue to its fullest extent. At its core humanism is secular and democratic. It prioritizes the value of human and promotes rational thinking over religious dogma. Humanism's origins can be traced back to Italy in the late 14th century during Renaance's period. A day at its inception, humanism primarily focused on literary knowledge and linguistic skills and targeted the revival of classic learning techniques. The movement further spread to other parts of the Europe in mid 15th and subsequently became a massive intellectual movement by 16th century. The modern meaning of humanism as an approach to life began in mid 1800s when the German historian Gogut used the word to describe a humankind centered philosophy. World Humanist Day began in the US in 1980s when the different local state chapters of the American Humanist Association came together. A discussion about the actual date to observe this yearly celebration followed in early 1990s. A subsequently passed a resolution desire designated June 21st as world humanist day and humanist international also passed the same resolution. Since then it has become a global event for humanist and other organizations to promote and publicize positive humanist values. To celebrate this day, humanist around the world organize and participate in seminars, workshops and conferences. Since June 21st is also the summer solstice, observers of human uh humanism or world humanist day also participate in various outdoor event such as parties, picnics and handouts hangouts. World humanist ceremonies essentially focus on publicizing humanism, educating the public and improving awareness about the humanist movement. Humanists across different countries often adopt different themes and hold various events to mark this day but aims remain the same. The early humanists of the Renaissance were intellectuals who focused on education. They founded schools and authored books to teach others about their ideas. Modern humanist emphasize the importance of logical thinking, justice, benevalence, compassion, prudence, and mess. Humanism is an approach to life based on rational thinking and a conscious sense of common humanity. Humanists believe that practical moral and ethical codes, moral values are based on human nature and experience and rational thinking. Humanists do not believe in the existence of a god who commands humans to have certain beliefs or to live in certain way. Rather they believe humans are capable of making choices and living by rational logic. So these are not not atheist as such but uh they do not overemphasize they have internal locus of control where they believe that humans should put 100% efforts not blindly believing in anything luck or something when we put definitely universe will come forward universe may be seen as a god as a miracle or whatever it may but we should put always our 100 effort 100% efforts with body mind and soul into it so that we can achieve. So today is also commemorated as world giraffe day which is an celebrated on June 21st every year which was established by the Giraffe Conservation Foundation as a way to celebrate the tallest animal in the world. World Giraffe Day takes place during the summer solstice in the northern hemisphere and the winter solstice in the southern hemisphere. That's why here we have winter and in the north we have here we are in the south side so we have winter and in the north side they have summer. So alongside celebrating giraffes the GCF uses the day to raise funds for conservation of the wild giraffe population across the world and to raise awareness about the challenges these animals face. Institutions around the globe organize events on World Giraffe Day to properly celebrate the day. Considering that giraffes can grow to become about 18 ft in height, it's not surprising that humans have documented the existing of giraffes for as long as we had writing systems. The earliest humanmade records of giraffes date back to tom paintings and value giraffe tail hair for beaving belts and jewelry. Over the years, giraffes began appearing in the writings of travelers across the world from Greece to China. Giraffes were treated as valuable royal pets symbolizing the status of their owner. Giraffes were also hunted often for fashion religion for medical purposes. Due to hunting and trade of giraffes led to sharp decline in global population by the 19th and 20th centuries. Currently there exists several different kinds of distinct subspecies of giraffes. The genus is divided into the northern giraffe and the southern giraffe, the masai giraffe and the reticulated giraffe. The decline steadily continued over the next few decades. The International Union for Conservation of Nature has announced that the giraffe's redless status has changed from least concerned to vulnerable in 2016. The major cause of giraffes population decline range from the destruction of their natural habitats to illegal poaching for traditional medicine, meat, skin, and tails. Today foundations like Giraafi Conservation Foundation are working tirelessly to conserve the Giraafi population and ensure that the biodiversity of the world does not build further. Giraffes are incredibly expensive creatures. If you buy a healthy young giraffe, it can easily cost you $160,000 or more in the market. that is there is a huge demand that why uh lot of giraffes are kidnapped or abjected traffic you absolutely can sponsor a giraffe many organizations like GCF offer you that option so that you can contribute to the conservation giraffes mostly eat the leaves of the arc tree and other green leafy trees on plants. The day is specifically dedicated to giraffes. So take it as an excuse to learn more about this animal. The GCF also runs a social media campaign every World Giraffe Day uh which can be used to help spread the word. Giraffes can run about 35 miles per hour over short distances. Giraffes get most of their water supply from the plants they eat. A giraffe spots are entirely unique. Like our thumbridge, giraffes only need to sleep for a maximum of 30 minutes per day. They have very short sleep. A group of giraffes is referred to as star. Giraffes are fascinating creatures and word giraffe day is an excuse to learn about these gentle js. The preservation of biodiversity is critical. The day highlights the need to preserve the giraffe population. The GCF has cool giraffe day. World Giraffe Day merchandise available. It's a perfect day to grab awesome apparel and other merchandise to support the GCF Foundation. Today is also commemorated as world hydrography day celebrated on every June 21st which is an international day to appreciate the works of hydrographers. Hydrographers have been significant in helping us determine the modern maritime borders and underwater topography. Their efforts have not gone unseen and in 1917 the UN officially decided to establish an international hydrographic organization for all scientists and geologists. After this 2005 saw the emergence of an entire day to celebrate and appreciate the works of hydrographers. So go on, use this date that has been set apart to acknowledge the efforts and works of the hydrographers and their valuable contributions to the study of a geography. If you want to have basic understanding of hydrography then for you it is the study of ocean depths. If you choose to go to next level then understand that beneath the oceans there is a landmass that is uncharted ter and we know very little about that surface. To understand underwater surface hydrographers use different techniques to collect data for scientific analysis. This entire study is known as hydrography. So hydrography is part of geography that focuses its attention on underwater topography. The first team of hydrographers was commissioned by the Royal British Navy to study the depths of the seas and map of shorelines way before all this sea travel was always done at a distance from shores where within sight. It was not until late 1187 when the magnetic compasses were invented that the sea travel in open water boat to boat was made possible. But even that had some problems because of magnetic compasses with malfunction and a strong water currents and because of non-existence of longitudinal and latitudinal lines. It was difficult to determine the position of navigation. With the studies made by the hydrographers and naval officers being set up for this job, data were gathered and more accurate maps were made. And this is not this not only made navigation easy and reliable, but also enables researchers and hydrographers to come up with more advanced methods of ocean surveys. The advancements made in the field allowed for new inventions like sonar to detect underwater land masses for the ships sailing above and also for submarines to travel underwater. There are 93 countries registered in the international hydrographic organization. The GS is a computer system that performs in-depth analysis of the data collected through hydrographic surveys. These surveys seek to determine horizontal coordinates and measures red depth at those coordinates. So understanding the underwater surface of the ocean is very important. It helps geologists predict sea patterns and underwater currents. Not only that, it helps to determine the temperatures and mineral content below the surface. Hydrography has enabled us to deep develop sonar and other means of navigation for ships and submarines. Further developments can assist in developing who knows underwater colonies for humans. Atlantis remains a mystery. Maybe further development we might be able to discover the remains of advanced ter because it should be noted that it was not until this year it was you know the last few years that was discovered that New Zealand is part of 8th continent which is submatched in the Pacific Ocean. Now kyrographers has to be created for that. So today is also commemorated as mo world motorcycle day on June 21st to promote freedom of road since June 21st is the year longest day and the day is always observed on the day. So the day is dedicated to motorcycle enthusiasts and anyone else involved in the industry. At numerous locations, bikers from adverse diverse sections of the area get together to express their love for motorcycles. Although motorcycles have been around for more than a century, their functions in society remains consistent and constant. Regardless of whether you use motorcycle for your routine work or as a hobby, it will take you to your desired desired destination. Motorcycles were also used in wars to send messages across politically sensitive territories and even in battles. The first production motorcycle was launched in 1984 in the west at the turn of century. Players like Royal Enfield entered the market. By 1900, many manufacturers has converted bicycles, sometimes called pedal revs by adding small center mounted spark plug engines. Motorcycle tracks are tested and our manufacturers are competing as a result of the necessity for sturdy constructions. Motorcycles are employed for a wide variety of purposes nowadays, including daily commuting, passenger transportation, entertainment, and delivery. This is mostly because these vehicles have amazing mileage and are small and are simple to store even if you live in an apartment and motor cycles are way cheaper in terms of fuel and energy as compared with other vehicles. Now with availability of ebikes we have and green bikes uh which runs on solar and electricity renewable energies. Now it's a great uh gives us a sense of freedom and satisfaction and enjoying life. One of the best ways possible and we are also conscious about various ways we can contribute and its benefit from it and its significance in the world cannot be understated. So now we'll move on to our uh protocol where now for the convenience of everyone what we will do is we will play the video and then we all can do from at our comfort of our homes. So we request everyone to register. Uh the registration form has been already shared in the beginning itself. Now it is also still active. Those who have not registered uh you know you register and also provide feedback for each session. A feedback form will be shared after the uh protocol that is after the asas are demonstrated. So this provides and marks your attendance for each session. Each session they have a we have a different certificate so that uh as per their convenience one can attend. You can also attend all the four certificates uh will be provided if all the sessions have been attended individually you can attend one or more session. So morning we have conducted a session and now we are having another session second session and tomorrow also uh morning and evening we have sessions. So whoever is interested share with your friends and this is wonderful opportunity to be the part of uh the world's largest celebrations and we are also part of uh you know official yoga day celebrations under yoga sang and you will be part of this world is. So now we will uh start the protocol international day of yoga protocol. Kindly make yourselves comfortable wherever you are. Whether you can lie down, find some space or even if you are sitting in chair, ensure that you are comfortable. Whichever whoever it is, you can make ease at your place. Just give us couple of minutes so that we can start the presentation. In the meanwhile, those who have not registered are requested to register and provide your feedback. It is only through this data we get information and this data will also be sent to the government of India for uh you know for the program as part of like all the participants list will also be sent as part of the report. So we invite everyone to join even tomorrow day we have a morning and evening session. So we request invite your friends, relatives to join and make everyone part of it. to join or to unite and the practice of yog is said to lead to the union of an individual consciousness with the universal consciousness. Jo is widely regarded as an immortal cultural outcome of the Indas Saraswati Valley civilization dating back to 2,700 BC. Although yog was practiced during the preadic period, it was Maharishi Patanjali who systematized and codified the practices through yog sutras. for his invaluable contribution to this field of knowledge. He is known as the father of classic yo. Later many masters contributed to the preservation and development of yo by documenting the practices and spreading them worldwide. Today millions of people across the globe are benefiting from the practice of yog. Recent medical research has shown that regular practice of yog offers a variety of physical and mental benefits. working on different levels of an individual such as body, energy, mind and emotion. Each system of yog we practice falls within these categories. These have been further adopted and developed by different schools of yog namely Gan Yog, Bhakti Yog, KM Yog, Patanjal Yog, Huti Yog, Kundalini Yog, Dian Yog, Mantra Yog, Le Yog, Raj Yog, Jane Yog, B Yog etc. Some of the widely practiced yog sadhan are yam, nam, asan, pranayam, pratyahar, dharana, dan, samadhi, bund, mudra, shhatarm, yuktahar, mantra, yuktakarma. A yog practitioner should follow the guiding principles of yogic practices before the practices. Yogiic practices should be performed in a calm and quiet atmosphere with relaxed body and mind. It should be done on an empty stomach or light stomach. Consume a small amount of honey in lukewarm water. If you feel weak, light and comfortable cotton clothes are preferred to facilitate easy movements of the body. In case of chronic diseases or pains or cardiac problems, a physician or yoga expert should be consulted prior to performing yogic practices. During the practices, practice sessions should start with a prayer or invocation as it creates a conducive environment to relax the mind. Yogic practices should be performed slowly in a relaxed manner with awareness of the body and breath. Do not hold the breath unless it is specially mentioned to do so. Do not hold the body tightly or jerk the body. Perform the practices according to your own capacity. End the session with deep silence or shanti part. After the practices, food and bath should be taken only 20 to 30 minutes after the practice. Once prepared, step into the world of yog with mindfulness and avail the benefits of this centuries old wisdom. [Music] Let us enter into the world of yog invocation. [Music] Oh. [Laughter] [Music] Oh [Music] sh [Music] my John [Music] [Music] sana Sanai. [Music] [Music] Let's start yoga with yogic suksha viram or loosening practices to increase micro circulation neck movements forward and backward neck bending. Caution avoid this practice in case of severe cervical spondilitis. [Music] Start with alert posture samastiti. Stand with feet 2 to 3 in apart. Keep the hands straight beside the body. Now keep the hands on the waist. While exhaling, move the head forward slowly and try to touch the chest with the chin. As you inhale, bring the head to the center position. While exhaling, move the head backward comfortably. Bring the head to the center position. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Right and left neck bending. Caution. Do not overstrain during this practice. While exhaling, bend the head slowly to the right and bring the ear as close as possible to the shoulder without raising it. Experience stretching on the left side. As you inhale, bring the head to the center position. While exhaling, bend the head slowly to the left side. Experience stretching on the right side. Inhale and bring the head to the center position. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Right and left neck twisting. Caution. Do not jerk the neck. Keep the head upright. While exhaling, gently turn the head to the right so that the chin is in line with the shoulder. As you inhale, bring the head to the center position. While exhaling, gently turn the head to the left. Feel or experience stretching on the right side. Inhale and bring the head to the center position. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Neck rotation. Caution. People with neck pain and cervical spondylosis do this practice carefully. Exhale. Bend the head forward trying to touch the chest with the chin. Inhale slowly. Rotate the head clockwise in a circular motion and exhale while coming down. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Then rotate the head in an anticlockwise direction. Inhale. Go back. Exhale and come down. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Inhale and bring your head to the center position. Exhale. Bring the arms down and relax. Shoulder movements. Shoulders and arms movement. Caution. Frozen shoulder patients should do this practice carefully. Start with alert posture samastiti. Stand with feet 2 to 3 in apart. Place the hands by the sides. Keep the fingers together pointing downwards. While inhaling, move both the arms from the sides up above the head with the palms facing outward. Exhale and bring them down. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Shoulder rotation. Stand straight. Inhale and raise both the arms up to the shoulder level by the sides. Bend the arms at the elbows. Place the fingers on the respective shoulders. Try to touch the elbows in front of the chest and then rotate both the elbows and shoulders in a circular manner. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Inhale while raising the arms and exhale as you bring them down. Repeat the same in a reverse manner for two times. Inhale while raising the arms and exhale as you bring them down. Now inhale and stretch the elbows by the sides. Exhale. Bring the arms down and relax. Trunk movement. Trunk twisting. Caution in case of vertebral disorders do this practice under guidance. Start from the alert posture. Stand with feet about 1 ft apart. Raise arms to the chest level facing each other and keep them parallel. While exhaling, twist the body towards the right side so that the left palm is close to the right shoulder. Come back as you inhale. While exhaling, rotate the trunk and spine towards the left side. Come back with inhalation. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Slowly bring the arms and feet back together. As you exhale, relax. Knee movement. Caution. In case of arthritis and obesity, do this practice carefully. Start in an alert posture. Then keep the feet one foot apart. Inhale. Move the arms up the shoulder level from the front with palms facing downwards. Exhale. Bend the knees and bring down your body to the half squatting position. In the final position, both the arms and thighs should remain parallel to the ground. Come back as you inhale. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Come back with inhalation. Slowly return the arms as you exhale and bring the feet together. Relax. Let's now move towards yogasan, [Music] standing postures. Tarasan, the palm tree posture. Caution, avoid lifting heels in case of arthritis, varicose vein or vertigo. Alert posture. Stand with feet two to three in apart. Place hands by the sides. Inhale. Lift the arms to the shoulder level from the front and interlock the fingers. Exhale. Turn the palm outwards. Now inhale and stretch the arms over your head. Raise the heels off the floor and balance on the toes. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Bring the heels down. Release the interlock of the fingers. Exhale. Bring the arms down by the sides and come back to the starting position. Relax. Vikasan the three posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of arthritis, vertigo or obesity. Stand in alert posture and focus on a point in front. Exhale. Move the right leg up and place the foot on the inner side of the left thigh. The heel should be in contact with the perennium. Inhale. Extend the arms up and join the palms together in namaskar mudra. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Bring the arms down. Release the right leg and bring it to the starting position. Repeat on the other side. Exhale. Move the left leg up and place the foot on the inner side of the right thigh. The heel should be in contact with the perennium. Inhale and extend the arms up. Bringing the palms together in namaskar mudra. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Bring the arms down. Release the left leg and bring it to the starting position. Relax. Pad hastasan or the hands to the feet posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of cardiac spinal disorders or glaucoma. Assume standing position with feet 2 in apart. Inhale slowly. Raise the arms upward from the front and stretch up the body from the waist. Exhale and bend forward at the level of the hip joint until both the palms rest on the ground. [Music] Stretch the back to make it as straight as possible. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Slowly inhale and come up to the upright position while stretching the arms above the head. Exhale slowly. Bring down the arms and return to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Arda chakrasan or the half wheel posture. Caution. Avoid this posture in case of vertigo or cardiac problems. Stand with feet 2 in apart. Support the back at the sides of the waist with fingers. Try to keep the elbows parallel to each other. Inhale. Drop the head backwards while stretching the front side of the neck. As you exhale, bend backward from the lumbar region. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale and slowly come up. Exhale and return to the starting position. Relax. Trionasan, the triangle posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of slip disc, sciatica or after abdominal surgery. Assume the alert posture and step the feet 3 ft apart. Inhale and raise both the arms from the sides up to the shoulder level with palm facing outwards. Turn the right foot towards the right side. Exhale slowly. Bend to the right side and place the right hand just behind the right foot. Turn your head and gaze at the tip of the left middle finger. The left arm is straight in line with the right arm. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale slowly. Come up [Music] and bring the right foot back. Repeat on the other side. Turn the left foot towards the left side. Exhale. Slowly bend to the side and place the left hand just behind the left foot. Turn your head and gaze at the tip of the right middle finger. The right arm is straight in line with the left arm. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale slowly come up [Music] and bring left foot back. Exhale. Bring the arms down and feet together. Come to the starting position and relax. Badrasan. The firm posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of severe arthritis or sciatica. Start with visasan. Support the back with hands. Body should be relaxed in a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front. Keep the hands beside the hips and palms resting on the floor. This is dandasan. Now bring the soles of the feet together. Exhale. Clasp the toes with the hands. Inhale. Put your heels as close as possible to the perennium region. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Release the hands and stretch out the legs in the front. Support the back with hands. Relax. Vajrasan the diamond posture. Caution. Those who are suffering from knee pain or ankle injury should avoid this practice. Start with long sitting posture. Sit straight with legs stretched out in the front. Palms resting on the ground, fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place both the feet in such a way so that the big toes touch each other. Position of the buttocks is in the space between the heels and the feet. Keep hands on your respective knees or thighs. Keep the back straight. Gaze in front or close the eyes. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. When returning to the starting point, bend a little towards the right side to take out your leg and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Arda rasan the half camel posture. Caution in case of hernia, abdominal injuries, arthritis or vertigo. Please avoid doing this asan. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front and palms resting on the ground with fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on the respective knees. Stand on your knees. Place the hands on your back with fingers pointing downwards. Keep the elbows parallel. Inhale. Bend the head back and stretch the neck. Exhale. Bend the trunk backwards as much as possible. Keep the thigh perpendicular to the ground. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Come back to kneeling position. Exhale. Sit in vajrasan. Bend a little towards the right side to take out your left leg and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Ostrasan the camel posture. Caution. Those suffering from hernia should not practice this asan. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with legs stretched out in the front. Palms resting on the ground and fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on respective knees and stand on your knees. Now bring the knees and feet a few inches apart. While inhaling, bend backwards without jerking the neck. Exhale. Place the right palm on right heel and left palm on left heel. Weight of the body should be evenly supported by the arms and legs. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale, come back to kneeling position. Exhale, sit in vajrasan. Bend a little towards the right side to take the left leg out and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Shashakasan the hair posture. Caution. Avoid this posture in case of osteoarthritis of the knees. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front, palms resting on the ground and fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on respective knees. Inhale. Spread both the knees wide apart. Place the palms between the knees. Exhale. Bend forward with arms outstretched and place the chin on the ground. Keep the arms parallel. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Come up [Music] and close the knees together. Bend a little towards the right side to take the left leg out and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Utan mandukasan. The stretched up frog posture. Caution. Patients with osteoarthritis of the knees should avoid kneeling position. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front, palms resting on the ground and fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on respective knees. Spread the knees wide apart. Inhale. Slowly raise the arms upward from the front. Exhale. Fold them from the elbow and place the palms on alternate shoulder blades. Right palm on left shoulder blade and left palm on right shoulder blade. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Now inhale and raise the arms up. Exhale bring the arms down and close the knees together. Bend a little towards the right side to take the left leg out and extend it. Similarly extend the right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Vakrasen the seated twist posture. Caution. Avoid this posture in case of acute back pain or spinal disorders. Start with long sitting posture. Sit with the back straight and leg stretched out in front. Bend the right leg and place the right foot beside the left knee. Place the right palm beside the body. Bring the left arm around the right knee and place the palm beside the right foot. Inhale. Stretch the back. Exhale. Turn the body and head to the right. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale and come back. We will now repeat the same on the left side. Bend the left leg and place the left foot beside the right knee. Place the left palm beside the body. Bring the right arm around the left knee and place the palm beside the left foot. Inhale. Stretch the back. Exhale. Twist the head and body to the left. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Come back to the starting position. Relax. [Music] [Music] Prone postures. Macrasan. The crocodile posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of pregnancy and frozen shoulder. Start with vajrasan. Slowly lie down on the stomach with feet together and toes pointing outwards. Place the chin on the ground. Stretch your arms forward. Open the feet apart with toes pointing sideways. Bend your elbows and rest the chin on the hands. Lift the head up and place your cheek on the hands. Close the eyes and allow the entire body to relax. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Remain aware of the body and breathing. Bjangasan the cobra posture. Caution those suffering with hernia or stomach ulcers should not practice this asan. Start with macakarasan. Now join the legs. Stretch your arms forward and rest the chin on the ground. Now place your palms beside the chest and elbows close to the body. Inhale slowly and lift the head and chest up to the naval region with the help of spinal muscles. Keep the elbows parallel. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Bring the head down and rest your chin on the ground. Relax in macarasan. Shalhasan the locust posture. Caution. Patients with severe lower back pain, peptic ulcer, hernia or cardiac should avoid this posture. Start with macakarasan. Now join the legs and place both hands beside the body, palms facing downwards. Inhale and lift both the legs off the floor without bending the knees. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale and bring the legs down to the floor. Relax in macarasan. Supine postures situhasan. The bridge posture. Caution. If you have stomach ulcers or hernia, it is not recommended to practice this asan. Lie down on the ground. Stretch out your legs comfortably and place the palms facing downwards. Bend both the legs at the knees and bring the heels near the buttocks while holding both the ankles as per your convenience. Inhale slowly raise your buttocks and trunk up as much as you can to form a bridge and maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Slowly bring your hips down and straighten the legs in supine position. Relax. Utan padasan. The raised leg posture. Caution. Individuals with hypertension should practice this by alternating between legs. Lie comfortably on the ground with legs stretched out. Hands placed by the sides and palms facing down. While inhaling, slowly raise both legs without bending them at the knees until you are able to see the tips of toes. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale slowly. Bring both legs down and place them on the ground. Relax. Arda halasan. The half plow posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of abdominal injuries, hernia or lumbosacral pains. Lie comfortably on the ground with legs stretched out. Keep hands placed by the side and palms facing down. Inhale slowly raise both the legs without bending them at the knees and bring them vertical to the ground. The body from hip to shoulder should be kept straight. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale slowly. Bring the legs down to the ground without lifting the head. Relax. Pavan muktasan. The wind-freeing posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of abdominal injuries, hernia, sciatica or severe back pain. Lie comfortably on the ground with legs stretched out, hands placed by the sides and palms facing downwards. Bend both the knees. Exhale. Bring the knees towards the chest. Inhale. Interlock the fingers and clasp the shin below knees. Exhale. Raise the head up until the chin or nose touches the knees. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Bring the head back to the ground. Exhale. Release the legs back to the floor. Lie down in supine position. [Music] Relax. [Music] Shavasan, the corpse posture. Lie down on the ground. Open the feet apart with toes pointing sideways and palms facing upwards. Close your eyes. Consciously relax the whole body. Become aware of the natural flow of breath. It will tend to become slow. Remain in the position until you feel refreshed and relaxed. [Music] While coming back, slowly stretch your arm over the head and join the feet. Then turn by the side either right or left and come back to the sitting position with the support of the hands. [Music] Kapal bhhati. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of cardiac conditions, epilepsy, hernia, gastric ulcer or during menstrual cycle. Sit in any comfortable position. Keep the spine and head straight with eyes closed. Place the hands on the knees in ghan mudra. Inhale deeply through both the nostrils till you start to experience fullness in the pelvic region and expansion in the chest. Expel the breath with forceful contractions of the lower abdominal muscles and let the inhalation be passive. Let us begin the first round of kapal bhhati with 20 strokes. [Music] Exhale deeply and relax. This is one round of kapal bhhati. Repeat two more rounds with 20 strokes each. [Music] Nari shodhan praarayam the alternate nostril breathing start with sitting in any comfortable posture. Breath should be slow, steady and controlled. Keep spine and head straight with the eyes closed. Relax the body with few deep breaths. Keep the left palm on the left knee in gan mudra and the right hand should be in pranayam mudra with the middle and the index fingers folded like this. Close the right nostril with the right thumb and exhale completely. Now inhale through the left nostril. Recognize the touch of air moving through your body as pra. Then close the left nostril with the ring and little finger of the right hand and exhale through the right nostril. Now inhale through the right nostril. Close the right nostril with the thumb and exhale through the left nostril. This is one round of nari shodhan praam. Repeat it for four more rounds.  pranayam. Caution. People suffering from cough, cold or tonsillitis should avoid the practice of this pranayam. Sit in any comfortable posture. Keep the spine and head straight with eyes closed. Place the hands on the knees in ghan mudra. Roll up the tongue and shape it as a tube. Inhale maximum air through the tongue. Take the tongue inside the mouth and close the mouth. Then slowly exhale through the nostrils. This is one round of pranayam. Repeat it for four rounds. [Music] Brahri pranayam. Sit in any comfortable posture. Keep the spine and head straight with eyes closed. Place the hands on the knees in gan mudra and inhale deeply through the nose. Exhale slowly making a deep humming sound. [Laughter] Repeat one more round. [Music] Practice the brahri pranayam with shmuki mudra. Using your index fingers, gently close your eyes. Then place your middle finger beside your nose without fully covering it. Place your ring finger on your upper lip and your pinky finger on your lower lip. Finally, rest your thumbs on your ears as demonstrated in the video. Inhale deeply through the nose. Exhale slowly making a deep humming sound. [Laughter] [Music] Repeat one more round. Dan, sit in any comfortable position. Place the hands on the knees in gan mudra. Close your eyes. Now adopt dhan mudra [Music] and sit in a slightly upturned phase. You need not concentrate. Just maintain a mild focus between the eyebrows and be conscious of your breath. Let them flow freely. Just observe the flow. If impossible, let the thoughts dissolve. [Music] [Music] [Laughter] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Now time for us to take sulp. I commit myself to remain in a balanced state of mind all the time. It is in this state that my development reaches its greatest possibility. I commit to do my duty to the self, family, at work, to society and to the world for the promotion of peace, health and harmony. Yoga practice would end with shantiat or the universal prayer for everyone's peace and prosperity. [Music] SH [Music] maya. Oh, [Music] mash dab. [Music] [Music] Shanty, shanty, shanty. [Music] [Music] Hope you all have enjoyed doing yoga and have relaxed body, mind and soul. So you can continue by doing yoga every day and practicing it. with the help of protocol the minimum you can do or using yoga app developed by government of India and world health organization as a beginner or even if you are a practitioner or you're experienced user or trained you can use this app to perform and take advice on various yogic procedures. So with this we shall conclude today's commemorations and celebrations. Uh tomorrow also morning and evening we have two more sessions. You can share the link with your friends as well to join and together perform protocol yoga protocol and asas and be part of this largest celebrations. So we request everyone to quickly fill up the feedback form and mark your attendance for certificates. Certificates will be updated and will be sent to your email. The link after the closure of this event. The feedback form has been raised. We request everyone to quickly fill the feedback form before leaving the platform. So once again, happy international day of yoga to all of you. Om shanti. See you all tomorrow at 6:00 a.m. with the same joy. Take care. Good night. If anyone is interested to make presentations, you can do it tomorrow evening at 6:00. Tomorrow morning, we'll have only yoga asas. It is the basic protocol and then we will conclude session. It will be for a hour or so. Morning session from 6:00 to 7. Then evening we will have from 6:00 and tomorrow being the last evening being the last session. Anyone interested to make any presentations on yoga or asas you are welcome to make presentations. Once you join, you share your details in the chat box. We request everyone to quickly fill up the feedback form before leaving the platform and those who have filled the feedback form can leave the platform. So see you all tomorrow at 6:00 in the morning. Take care. Good night.