[Music] Namaste and welcome to a special podcast from Bharat Yoga Vidya Kendra. As we celebrate International Day of Yoga, we're diving into this year's theme, one earth, one family, and how yoga unites us in body, mind, and spirit. With me today are three incredible teachers Titra, Shabha and Buujiendra. Let's get started. Could each one of you share a brief one minute intro your journey into yoga and what it personally means to you? Over to you Chetra man. Namaste everyone and wishing you a very happy international day of yoga. Well, yoga has been part of my life for the last 15 years. Although I started it way young when I was a teenager but it stayed on with me on and off but has become a more serious practice the last 15 years. As I mentioned uh yoga is that tool that has supported me in my journey uh as a parent as a mother of two and uh today as I take classes I see how transformative yoga can be when anybody of any age can take it up. Uh yoga is also that tool that is like a go-to place whenever we are you know we down in our lives. Uh it is place to um find your energy, find your balance and also find that inab. So that's been my journey uh like in in short. Beautifully uh explained Chetra ma'am. Over to you Shouba ma'am. Namaste everyone. I'm Shouba here and um journey of yoga like I see I mean if I look back and I can understand that yoga has always been a part of my life no the upbringing was such where we were exposed to many aspects of yoga like bi and bajons and everything it was an everyday aspect even the yamas and yamas were actually taught to us but not under the name of yama and yam so only now I understand it after having foray into this uh you know uh journey of yoga by uh doing the traditional uh what do you say learning as per uh attaining a degree in the uh a certification of yoga practice that's what it was I am a ayurveic uh physician and to me um bringing about relief or helping someone else was is and was and will always be my prime uh objective in life and therefore this uh tool of yoga or the science of yoga is very uh came in very complimentary and handy to me when I started this journey on ara and yoga. I've done my uh uh yoga therapy from uh SPSA and I've been using that and also practicing with VK has been a wonderful journey for me and personally yoga is to connect within myself. So beautifully said. Thank you. Thank you so much. Uh Shbha ma'am. Over to you Vijayendra. Namaste everyone. So I would like to start uh telling that I read this quote or a brief note telling that you don't choose yoga, yoga chooses you. So I think that was very much true in my my situation. So when I was having some health issues so I started doing yoga for myself and then with the benefit uh it says like uh when you're connected and then when you're on the path of yoga starts it starts flowing so that started happening so naturally I started uh instructing or facilitating children and then it slowly uh made me to do more and more courses like as Shouba was mentioning even I am uh a product of Huaza so I did my MSE in SUSA and then that application of yoga as a therapy started cropping up and then uh I started meeting more and more people where they have some physical and health mental issues. So where I started helping them out and then that has become part of my life now. So wherever I see so the first aspect or first uh thing where I talk to people is more like how are they physically and mentally are they healthy. So that is become uh part of my life. So that's that's about mine. Thank you. Thank you so much uh Vendra. Since you know of course uh we all know we're here for yoga right and for the international day of yoga. Why not start uh by discussing what yoga is right? So uh this question goes to you Fitra ma'am. How do you describe yoga to a beginner and what does it truly mean beyond as just asa practice? Well, when we say how do we describe yoga, you know, uh today if I have to describe yoga because people look at yoga as something that's very slow and something that's very boring, meant only for the old people, not for Gen Z, Gen Alpha or whatever you all have heard. uh however I think uh it's very important how uh we present yoga to different people because yoga is a scientific tool in fact you know for um for attaining self-realization and um when we directly start offering philosophy people generally switch off because they're looking for their solutions to solutions to their problems and that is how we approach yoga practice with uh you know based on the participant. So we um so when we say a beginner we definitely start with asa practice because we start with the grass and then move to the sucking. So we start ging with the body with the physical body uh and the postures because there's so much that one can learn uh when one is just put to test on that mat right so it's just not the physical flexibility that's put to challenge but at various levels uh the person can get challenged when uh they are working on their asas. So we definitely begin with asas and then from there on the transition happens gradually as the person to the other aspect. Of course of course very well said and explained chitra ma'am I think you're so right even you know a lot of for a lot of people everything begins on the mat and I think even without knowing that transition happens so naturally even without realizing it and it is a process I think you need to be there to experience it. Yes. Thank you. Thank you Chitra ma'am. Uh Vijendra like we all know that you really you know uh kids yoga is your strong aspect right. So from kids to advanced uh practitioners what makes yoga universally relevant across all life stages you know be it kids or being it the advanced practitioners. So beginning basically from when you're a child going up to you know the end of your life yoga is a practice for life right. So how do you explain this? Yeah, this is a beautiful question. It's like as Chitra was rightly mentioning, we start from asas the physical. So in our life when we see our ancestors has or the rushies or the munish put it across very beautifully the different stages of life balasta praasta gastasha and then sasa syasa and then wanapastasha. So here as a child or as a a young uh uh player you start with asa practices. So you don't really have to sit and do meditation as a child. So you must try to use the energy to build up that muscles build up that flexibility and then you ground yourself and then as a teen the praasta or the bal the yawasta you start realizing the energy and you start using it appropriately. you start handling the life appropriately the anxiety issues that the depression issues or to take a right decision so what is good to me what should I do so that's how the second life second stage happens and then comes to the grahastrama so in ghastrama even though they you'll still continue with the asas you are started moving inward to handle your family so there you start using yoga so how do you handle your wife how do you manage manage your children, how do you be good with the society? So as Shouba mam was talking about the yamas and nyamas. So there you start implementing them as to what is good for me and what is good for the society and then she slowly move towards the sasha. SASa is I think nowadays it is being taken in a wrong sense. So I leave everything and run away from the pig. But uh it is stay with the family and slowly start detaching with the things what you have been attached to. So you if you are attached to something some materialistic thing some relationship something very close to you then you slowly start for example the taste. So you love a food very very much you are like attached to it. You slowly start detaching from it. So you you eat food as a nutrition and then slowly you move on to the waapstraas. So there the elders the uh the golden ages so they start doing yoga moving more inward as more of like a vin yoga. So all this while you have been started building up your body, your mind, your breathing techniques and then how you handle the society and now you slowly start detaching from sa and then move to the vanapastraasha like v yoga. So how do you get attached to one particular either be a guru or a diety so we can talk about the different stages of yoga bi yoga, karma yoga and then attain that raja yoga state. So I think yoga is appropriate all over the stage life stages starting from uh a child of around 6 7 years and go all the way up to they detach from their physical body. So the soul detaches from the physical body and takes a different form. So I think uh this is how yoga is appropriate for all age group. Vijendra you've given such a detailed and a beautiful perspective to things which I think is very rare to find I think in today's date especially in the modern schools of yoga right there's one thing that I would like you to explain if you could maybe you know just take two minutes to explain detachment is a concept not everybody understands so could you explain to us what is detachment what do you mean by detachment uh this is what I have learned from my guru so always mentions when you are alive you have to use two things two wis rather vive and vaga so vaya is the detachment which is wrongly assume like okay I'll stay away from everything and then I'll not use it so that is not the detachment you stay with within and then you don't indulge in it completely so it doesn't mean detachment you as I mentioned earlier you move away from the gaashan you your responsibility is there Like you have married, you have children, you have your parents. So who are dependent on you, you don't live everything. You don't for example you don't quit your job. So that is again Shri S beautifully says about prai and dharma. So you don't leave everything and just move away. So how much you as taking the middle path yes the middle path asam was telling how do you move from gross to subtle. So slowly you understand that how you detach. So that is you use the V gear. So in order to use the V appropriately you use your Vivea. Vivea is the Vnanameosha. So the all the knowledge what you have gained from your gurus or listening to some great souls. How do you use that in convert into a wisdom and then start applying it? So I think so living in the society living at home and yet to be able to follow the principles of yoga is the middle path. Perfect. Yes. Correct. Right. Right. Thank you. Thank you so much Vijendra. Going back to yoga for kids in fact uh what impact do you think Vijendra have you seen in kids and teens specifically who practice yoga regularly? Yes. Uh yoga is this is where I initially started with. So um as I mentioned this is where I started facilitating them. So they have abundant energy. So the energy we would have heard people talking about children have so much of energy but we don't have even we do the have the same kind of energy but we don't use it appropriately. So as a child if you start yoga for them so you are sewing a seed in them. So the it's a clear ground, clear field where you just sew and then it grows up into a a beautiful fruit or a tree or whatever you would like to refer it as. But in adults it is more cluttered. So first we have to start clearing and then starts sewing a seed. So as a child if you have swed a seed of yoga tell them that how to use your body, how to use the energy appropriately to build the strength and the uh ability, the stamina and then slowly move on to the teens where they think just holding in asa is boring. Just sitting in chanting is boring because yoga has different perspectives. By yoga, karma yoga, ghana yoga. So no this is vender the teaching part of it but for example let's say you know kids and teens you've been teaching for the past 6 months one year let's say you know because for kids you need at least that minimum time to be able to really see something happening so what is the first change or first impact that comes in into them after you know doing the practice for a child of age group of 7 to 8 they learn how to use their body okay so as a teen they will understand how their body is being converted as being more flexible and then they start understanding how can I utilize my energy to be grounded so they can start handling their anxiety issues the depression issues more right so they can start focusing better so they so it will give them an outlet maybe going back to the mat will help them channelize their energy properly or maybe in the right way can we put it like that right? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you so much. Uh Vijendra, uh to you Chitra ma'am. Uh discussing traditional and modern yoga. Yoga has evolved so much, right? We all know like we have different types of yoga at the markets today. How do we honor tradition while embracing today's forms of yoga as well? So you know going traditional and the modern way hand in hand, how do you balance it and also you know while respecting traditions? Yeah. So as you yeah as you rightly said the there are uh you know different types of yoga available and one can let you know be left pretty confused you know which yoga to embrace and what to do today. When we say traditional yoga, what do we actually mean? Right? So very clearly it means that the yoga practice that actually comes from a tradition or from a lineage you know it could be uh lineage of gurus, masters, teachers uh sraas as we say and uh it is rooted in the ancient yoga yoga texts you know. You know so when we say traditional yoga the teachings are rooted in texts like the yoga sutras, Bhagavad Gita, the opanishads, um the hata yoga pratipika. So these are all the ancient texts which came which have come about. Uh and when the practice is rooted with those teachings then we say it's traditional yoga. Modern yoga on the other hand is a quick fix solution for problems. Right? Okay. So I I have a headache. I need some asas. I need some prana in order to you know get uh get it resolved. So when we look at blending the two you know what we need to understand is if we approach our yoga practice not just with the physical aspect but look a little beyond it uh and look at all the other aspects because as we see in the yoga sutras uh we refer to it as ashtanga yoga or eight limbs of yoga out of which asa is only one aspect. So what about the others? And even before ASA come yamas and nyamas which are pretty much the disciplinary tools and um regulations that we need to follow in our day-to-day life you know and when that is embraced things like aimsa satya like you know nonviolence and being truthful um being um you know cleanliness sa you know being content satosha you know these are all different things there are 10 of them and when one can embrace those qualities um and make it a way of their life. then they can blend in their modern practice with so to understand that it's just not the physical but it's much more of a way of life itself then uh then it's a good mix I would say right right right absolutely uh Chhatra ma'am you mentioned yamas and nyamas right so which yama or nyama feels specially important in the world today and how can we live it maybe you know just give one specific I know it's an overall theme like you said you know there are 10 but maybe that one particular thing which we can follow at least you know if not 10 right um well yeah as you rightly said it's hard to choose because you know they are all equally important I really cannot pinpoint and say you know just follow the path of satya truth and you know and then give away something else because they all go hand in hand but I think suadhaya is one aspect ect which I definitely recommend everyone. So if you are a beginner, intermediate, advance, wherever you are in your yoga practice which means right. So selfstudy this is one that one needs to constantly keep doing at every stage of their life. Right? And we what we call a self introspection. So it doesn't necessarily mean just that you sit with your thoughts and you just figure out what's going on. But it also means using these different texts, scriptures, books to give you the knowledge and to give you the grounding so you're able to discover the journey in in a better way. Right? So swadhaya I I would highly recommend everybody to take time out to do self-study to see where they are in their lives. what are the things that they need to change incorporate let go of if required to move ahead right I couldn't agree more honestly ma'am very very well explained thank you uh to you Shubha ma'am talking of yoga and ayurve going together right so yoga and ayurve like we all know go hand in hand so how do they really complement each other in your teachings Shaman just as um uh vijendra spoke about yoga be relevant in the know the different ashamas of life like the uh the balavasta then the brahmachara then the rurasha then the vanapas pasha what is the one thread that you can see in all of these that one requires to either follow to follow anything be it yoga or any practice and that is hell right so you can weave that thread. It's the same tapestry, but you weave it in with good health. So, aya and yoga both um have the same uh lineage or they follow the same philosophy. So, they follow the Sanka philosophy and they're sisters sciences. Okay. One complements the other. If Ayurveda is uh concentrating, it's not concentrating only on u you know medicines and health. That's what people think but Ayurveda looks at as a human being as a whole right so it caters to the mind the body and the spirit or the soul you know so all of this is incorporated and the same thing happens with yoga we're doing asa take the punch koshas for example you're integrating every all the practices to enrich nourish and empower all the koshas right so this is what you can say is ayurvea and uh yoga both science is going hand in Right. Right. And u ma'am going forward how does ayurvea define health? I think you've just uh given a little bit of a brief on that uh but how will you differentiate ayurvea from modern medicine? So yeah modern medicine we do uh the who u definition of health which everybody knows is uh you know not having any it is health at the level of the mind the body the social and the emotional well-being. All of this is uh you know brought together now. Earlier it was only the physical wellbe is being looked after right looked at. So slowly and slowly they've introduced the mental the emotional and now they've also added the social and spiritual wellbeing. Whereas in that this health was defined then as you know generally the definition that everybody you know speaks of when they say and health what describes health as is that means if the is your health tissues your agny your dshas which are the principal factors or principal energies these biochemical energies in you if they're functioning properly as well as your mind and your sense organs are working properly that is when you call it health but I would like to at this point bring in one beautiful uh definition that from charaka samita one of the texts by Veda he describes he says That means let me give you an explanation. A person who eats wholesome food regularly who has a healthy wholesome lifestyle who deliberates in good action. Sami shakari who's not overindulgent in the senses. who's generous, just, truthful, forgiving in nature, who is serviceminded, who helpful is considered as healthy. So here the yamas, nyamas are also incorporated into one being healthy. So you can't differentiate yamas and yamas from your lifestyle. This explanation was so powerful and gave me goosebumps. I'm being very very honest about it very very well beautifully explained. So mam if you can just uh give us you know out there what do you mean by wholesome food? You know there are people who would like to know maybe you know to the listeners what does wholesome food mean in general? This is this is a trick question let us because when we say wholesome today we have innumera you open the YouTube you have innumerable diets which are being prescribed as wholesome innumerable uh you know so according to yoga and ayurvea both the yoga aspect says hita mahara okay the haty yoga pratraipika presides mthahhara for a practitioner of yoga which is eating wholesome food as in whole grains which is slightly sweet to taste Foods which are naturally grown and which have their good potency. That is what we mean when we say with good pranai. That is what we mean. Fruits, vegetables, try and keep the vegetarian uh diet because they it's more consistent or more energized. That's what we would say. And uh fruits and we also include milk and ghee. That is what the yoga prescribes. And so does ayurvea. Ayurveda also adds this factor of try and incorporate all the six tastes. You know there are six tastes that are described in Ayurveda and these are the the kashayas. They're all bitter, pungent, uh sweet, salty, all of these. But doesn't mean that you have to eat everything at one shot. It's just that you need to include a little bit of it in all. It's like if you want to include a little bit of pungent, you take a little bit of pickle. Moderation is the key in your ayurvea as well as yoga. That is how I would see and also in you know the modern concept of diet is protein carbohydrate. How much is protein do I need to take? How much carbohydrate? I need to cut down on carbs. I need to cut down on fats completely. But ayurvea and yoga both speak of a diet which is more gona oriented. Satwik rajasik tamasik these are the three gonas that are there in whole of nature. And everything that comes in nature comes with these three goonas. Everything. So incorporating your diet thoughtfully and trying to move from the tamasi to rajaik and more towards the satwe would be very beneficial. So this is like another whole podcast which we will do with you very soon on diet and ayurvea. So just uh keep in cutting it down a little bit here. uh going on to one earth one family uh collective consciousness consciousness right which is our theme uh for this year to all of you this question is out for all of you uh this theme asks us to think beyond personal wellness right so what does one earth one family mean to each one of you we can start with you okay um when we say one Earth, I would connect with the elements of the earth, the panchabas, right? We everything in the earth is made of the panchabas and so are we. So that if I can take care of myself, I also need to be able to take care of everyone around me. I am connected in this manner through the punchabas. I am connected. There is an interconnectedness that is there which we've through the modern lifestyle we've forgotten about that. Right? So that connection is one earth for me you know going back to that interconnectedness with the nature with the other human beings. Okay. All all that is one earth we also think about others. Uh before can we say thinking about ourselves or along with us along with you would say if I would look at it this way that if you want to light a lamp you need to have that flame within you. Right. Right that flame you you can light that candle only if your flame is blowing. So that's how I would look at it and therefore you can bring about illumination outside change of course. Thank you. Thank you so much Shiva ma'am. Over to you Chhatra ma'am. Yeah thanks Nepali. So one earth one health right and u when you say and and you also added one family which is great you know the the entire planet is like one family in this whole um ecosystem or you can say the macrocosm. So when we talk about one earth and one health it primarily again begins first with the self right. So like if you are in a peaceful and happy mood, you know how your family is going to feel that day. They're also you're going to exude that energy around you and everybody's going to be the same. Um and the contrary also works, right? So if you're going to be grumpy and angry, that also starts working around. So we know that with yoga, with ayurveda, we begin with first establishing inner harmony. And when we are established in inner harmony, we then exude it to our family members and then to the community then to the society and then we establish the connection with nature itself. Right? So when we are grounded in yamas and nyamas and we talk about nonviolence apsa it's about the same thing how we approach nature like the environment um animal life plant life because we assume as human beings that you know we are on top of the ladder yet you know only when something nature shows its other ways like a tsunami or something we realize how small we really are in this whole uh ecosystem. So the understanding is to be established with that inner harmony and then transfer that harmony to society to community and then to nature itself which means we become more conscious of our actions um of what we engage in how we take care of mother earth right and how we teach our children and other generations to be able to embrace this quality because it's so very important for its very sustenance. So if we want things to continue in life to exist, we have to become a very conscious planet today and that is why it's very important that it begins with the individual self. So we are looking with this theme this year uh primarily because we want to establish that awareness in all our yoga classes and all the interactions that we have that we need to bring about this awareness and change that we have to become a conscious planet which means we have to open our eyes and really see what are the real issues whether it's climate change whether it's global warming whatever it is it's because of our actions so to reook at those actions s and to embrace and to uh employ techniques so we're able to uh live in a happier and better world. Yes. Thank you so much Chhatwa ma'am. I think if each one of us takes responsibility just for themselves I think we'll be able to do it. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Over to you Vijay. Thank you Deali. Uh I think uh Shouba and Chitra has very well articulated as what one earth one family or one earth one health mean. I would just like to mention uh when I say when we uh hear the word one earth respect everything that's on the earth. So it's it's been there for everyone. Everyone's space is the earth. So just respect their space and then live in harmony with each other. And then when it comes to one health or one family as Chitra rightly mentioned it's so you consider everyone as a family and when you start noticing the benefits of practicing yoga and following the right diet following the ayurvea so you start spreading across to everyone and start sharing it. So that becomes your dharma. So first is yourself and then around your family and then slowly start spreading it to the society and then consider whoever deserves that tip and trick to be healthy share start sharing it with them. So that's how you bring that one health one family one earth into picture as per my perspective. Thank you. Thank you so much Vijendra. Very well said. very simply put but very deep you know something so deep I think if it resonates with everybody and everybody can bring in a little bit of a change at their own level thank you okay we'll do something fun just now okay we'll close this with a rapid fire round okay there's no hampers by the way this is not coffee with kar but we do it anyway okay so we start with you Shouba ma'am uh are you ready yeah let's see okay so your Go to ayurvedic remedy just a oneliner one word following the natural ghee or coconut oil ghee if I have any increase in pitha coconut oil ghee for vata and pitha coconut oil for kafa okay that you can't skip okay in one word was yeah being established in the cell one that you might want to share like fra said yoga is for the old ayurvea is very slowy is very difficult to inculcate. So if you can inculcate the charara then you are and of course follow the practices in yoga you are something that there's something that you don't have to uh I mean that's the myth that everybody thinks that ayurveda is only medicine and it's very bitter medicine no we mean we look at prevention so go to the root that is the prevention all right thank you shaman to you chitra ma sanskrit word everyone one Sanskrit word everybody should know that's Namaste. Yes, that's it. I I bow down to the divinity in yog. Yeah, I think that everybody should and you know this. No, but I think they should practice practice it as well. Of course. Uh morning or evening practice? Uh ma'am morning. Okay. Uh yama or nyama that you live by? Sorry. Yes. Yeah, I got that one. Off the mat yoga moment this week. Well, yeah, there are many of them. But I would say um you know just when you know especially there are situations when I'm driving on the road and then you know you your patience is really pushed to the limits when people just cut cut across and then you know don't even put an indicator. Uh but then you just watch remind yourself yeah you remind yourself hey you better use some technique to watch. So yeah right a small daily practice that creates big change. Yeah, consistency um of just showing up um every day on the mat, you know, even if it's just for like even if it's just for 5 minutes, I would say uh that you are committed and uh it brings you back to ground zero, you know. Absolutely. Absolutely. Consistency. Thank you. Thank you, Chitra man. Over to you Vijendra. Make it fire, make it rapid. Yes. Yes. Teaching kids or advanced students? Children, kids, kids headstand or shavasana? Shavasana. Uh, one yoga myth you'd bust. Yoga is for all. So the myth we have is yoga is not suitable for the adults. Yoga is not suitable for the not flexible. So absolutely. Favorite time of the day of practice? Early morning. Early morning. Uh, if yoga were an animal, elephant. Elephant. Why do you say that? So that that's so majestic and then it's always up to itself. So it doesn't bother running. But when it doesn't leave anymore. So it's like you're to yourself the power. Yes. So you know your limitations and then you'll be to yourself. Right. Right. Thank you. Thank you so much Vijendra. Thank you so much all of you for such an enriching conversation. It's been a pleasure to have you know be in talk with you three great teachers from BY. It's really been fantastic. Uh to all our listeners, thank you so much for joining us. May we continue the path of harmony, awareness and unity. Happy International Day of Yoga everybody. One earth, one family, one health. Namaste. Namaste too. Namaste. And thank you. Namaste. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Just for the fun of it, we should ask Vijendra to do the pose of uh the elephant. He does it beautifully. Yeah, he does. Do it. Do it. Yes, we should. Yes, it please. Vijendra said elephant. I was tempted to add, you know, like the elephant god and the relevance of having a bigger year. Okay. Here I go. Put my leg on it. Lift my body up. Hold it. Look front. Oh wow. Beautiful. Beautiful. Yes. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you guys. Thank you.