[Music] Hello and welcome. You're watching One India News and I'm Puja Sacha. As the world and especially India is gearing up for the International Day for Yoga on 21st June, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has a special message for people. He posted a video message on his Twitter handle on Sunday and this is what he has to say. My dear friends from all over the world, it gives me great pleasure to address you as we prepare for the second international day of yoga. this unique occasion that brings all of us together to celebrate the invaluable gift of India's ancient tradition. When I outline a vision for an international yoga day in September 2014 at the United Nations General Assembly, even I did not anticipate the enormous enthusiasm for the occasion from all corners of the world. Your support and participation last year and once again now redeems our commitment to nurture and promote this ancient discipline and reaffirms yoga as an exemplary manifestation of basudam the world as one family. I recall the iconic images from that momentous day last year all the way from the Pacific Islands to port of Spain from Vladivito to Vancouver and from Copenhagen to Captown thousand Thousands gathered to unite the bodies and minds through the practice of yoga and the reverberations of discipline found on natural home at the UN headquarters in New York where the journey had begun. I myself was fortunate to celebrate the event along with 36,000 of my fellow citizens and foreign guests in New Delhi. As so many of you have already discovered, yoga is much more than a physical exercise. It enables us to access a new dimension of the self even while providing a holistic approach to preventive health care and wellness. Yoga helps us to restore our balance and furnishes us with a much needed sense of clarity. And through its unifying power we seek completeness and at the same time a oneness with the world. Today all of you are the ambassadors of yoga taking forward India's ancient message to the world. I thank you for your commitment and welcome you as sisters and brothers of India's family. International Yoga Day is celebrated annually on 21st June and was declared to be internationally recognized by the United Nations General Assembly on 11th December 2014. That's all for now but don't forget to click that button to subscribe us. You're watching One India News. Dick.