[music] [music] [music] >> Thank you so much for the second day. I don't know what I'm going to do with you for two days and then maybe we'll take a break. So today we'll be focusing mainly on the mantra bends lower back. So we will follow whatever techniques we have learned yesterday. And we will try to incorporate all those practices together. So I hope all of you are ready. Let's begin our practice. Have a gentle sankalpa. Whatever your goal is, let this practice help you in achieving it. With this goal in the heart, we will do a prayer. So you can join your palms together at heart center. Om. Saha naav avatu. Saha nau bhunaktu. Saha viryam karavavahai. Tejasvi naav >> Let there be peace with things which are not in our control. Let there be peace around us. And let there be peace within us. Now you can slowly relax your palms on your knees. Now place your right palm on your abdominal area. We will begin by observing our exhalation. Or how we are breathing out. You can inhale freely. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Slow and gentle exhalation. As you exhale, slowly pull in your abdominal area. So right palm palm is placed on your abdomen just to understand how the abdomen moves as you exhale. Inhale freely. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. Slow and gentle exhalation. As you exhale, your abdomen is going in. Inhale freely. Pause. Attention on your abdomen. Slow and gentle exhalation. You can do this one more round yourself. Now you can relax your right palm on your right knee and place your left palm on your chest. Now focus only on your inhalation. How you are breathing in. So attention on your chest, slow and gentle inhalation, and feel the expansion of your chest on all the sides, your front, sides, and upper back. And exhale freely. Attention on your chest, slow and gentle inhalation, feel the expansion of your chest, and exhale freely. You can do this two more round yourself. Full attention on your inhalation and free exhalation. Once completed, you can relax your left palm on your left knee. Breathe normally here and observe yourself. >> [snorts] >> After doing this breathing technique, is there any change you are able to experience in your system? Your breath, your body, and your thoughts. Now we can slowly stand up on the mat. So, we will begin by whatever we have done yesterday, we will do a simple arm moment just to understand the moment in between our breath. Okay? So, stand in samasthiti, you can join your feet together. Palms to the side of your body, shoulders relaxed, chin closer to your neck, and make sure you fix your attention on a point in front of you. Now, start your inhalation. Slowly start raising your arms up from the sides all the way up joining your palms together. Finish the movement, then finish your inhalation. Take a pause, attention on your abdomen, start exhaling, slowly bring your arms down from the sides. Finish the movement of your arm, then finish your exhalation. Okay, make sure you follow this breathing technique throughout our practice. Again, attention on your chest, start your inhalation, then start raising your arms up. Finish the movement of your arms, then finish your inhalation. Take a pause, attention on your abdomen, start exhaling, slowly bring your arms down from the sides. Finish the movement of your arms, then finish your exhalation. You can do this one more round yourself. Make sure full attention is on your breath. Slow and gentle movement. Attention on your abdomen, start exhaling, your abdomen is going in, slowly bring your arm down. Finish the movement, then finish your breathing. Very good. So, following the same technique, we will add one more moment to this posture. So, we are going to raise our heels also up with the same technique. We will do Tadasana. So, attention on your chest, start your inhalation, start raising your arms up and heels up. Joining your palms together. Take a pause, attention on your abdomen, start exhaling, slowly bring your arms down from the sides and heels back on the mat. Okay, and make sure you touch your palms to the thighs and heels on the mat at the same time. Again, attention on your chest, start your inhalation, start raising your arms up from the sides and heels up. Joining your palms together. Take a pause, attention on your abdomen, start exhaling, slowly bring your arms down from the sides and heels back on the mat. Third round, inhale and go up. Very slowly with the breath, attention on your chest. Take a pause, attention on abdomen, as you exhale, slowly come down. Again, inhale and go up. Fix your attention on a point. Pause, attention on your abdomen, exhale and come down. Okay. For the next round, we will stay in this posture for one breath. Okay? Attention on your chest, start your inhalation, slowly start raising your arms up, heels up, and join your palms together. Now, maintain this posture. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale here 6 seconds. 1 2 3 4 5 6. Pause. Attention on your chest. Inhale and go up little more 4 seconds. 1 2 3 4. Pause. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale. Slowly bring your arms down and heels back on the mat. Very good. Now, you can stand in Shithila Tadasana. You can have your legs apart. Open your palms. You can close your eyes if you are very comfortable closing your eyes in standing postures. Or you can open your eyes and observe yourself. Observe your body your breath and your thoughts. Okay, moving to the next posture. So, we will do a very simple lateral bend. So, you can stand in Samasthiti again joining your feet together, palms to the sides, chin closer to the neck. We will start with our left side. So, attention on your chest. As you inhale, raise your left arm up from the sides. From the side, raise your left arm up. Take a pause. Attention on your abdomen. As you exhale, laterally bend to your right side. Very slowly with the breath. Pause. Attention on your chest. Inhale and come up. Pause. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale, slowly bring your left arm down. So, in standing postures, eyes are open and make sure you fix your attention on a point. Same on the right side. As you inhale, raise your right arm up. Take a pause, attention on your abdomen. Start exhaling and laterally bend to your left side. Pause, attention on your chest. Inhale and come up. Pause, attention on your abdomen. Exhale, slowly bring your right arm down. Okay, same technique on the left side. Attention on your chest, inhale, raise your left arm up. Take a pause, attention on your abdomen. Exhale and laterally bend to the right side. Pause, shift attention to your chest. Inhale and come up. Pause, attention on your abdomen. Exhale, slowly bring your left arm down. Same on the right side. Inhale, right arm up. Exhale, laterally bend to your left side. Pause, attention on chest. Inhale and come up. Pause, exhale, slowly bring your arm down. Right arm down. For the next posture, we will stay in this posture for one breath. Starting with the left side, attention on your chest. As you inhale, slowly raise your left arm up. Take a pause, attention on your abdomen, exhale and laterally bend to your right side. Now, maintain this posture. Inhale here 4 seconds. 1 2 3 4 Pause, attention on your abdomen, exhale here 6 seconds. 1 2 3 4 5 6 Inhale and come up. Pause, exhale, slowly bring your left arm down. Same on the right side. Attention on your chest. As you inhale, raise your right arm up. Take a pause, attention on your abdomen, exhale and laterally bend to your left side. Maintain this posture. Inhale here 4 seconds. 1 2 3 4 Pause, attention on abdomen, exhale here 6 seconds. 1 2 3 4 5 6 Inhale and come up. Pause, exhale, slowly bring your arm down from the sides. Again, stand in Sthiti Tadasana and observe yourself. Legs apart arms apart close your eyes and observe. After doing this simple lateral bend what are the changes you are able to experience in your system? Okay. Now, we will do a simple counter posture, a simple forward bend. So again, stand in Savasana. Palms to the side of your body, shoulders relaxed, chin closer to the neck. As you inhale, raise your arms up from the sides to shoulder level. Take a pause. Start exhaling. Bend forward from your lower back, placing your back side of your palms on your back. Very good. Now as you inhale, slowly come up stretching your arms to the sides. Exhale, slowly bring your arms down. Okay, we will do one more round. As you inhale, raise your arms up from the sides to shoulder level. Take a pause. Exhale and bend forward, placing the back side of your palms on your back. Inhale and come up stretching arms to the sides. Exhale, slowly bring your arms down. Again, stand in Savasana. Relax here for a breath. Breathe normally here. Next, we will do Trikonasana. So you can stand at one end of the mat and take a wide step towards the inside of your mat. Okay. So all the sisters can look to the brother's side and all the brothers can look to the sister's side so that it will be comfortable for you. Yes. So take a comfortable step towards the inside of the mat. Now as you inhale, raise your arms up from the side to shoulder level. Palms facing down. As you exhale, laterally bend to your left side and place your left palm wherever you are comfortable. Turn your head and look at your right palm. >> [snorts] >> Take a pose. Attention on your chest. Inhale and come up, stretching arms to the sides. Pose. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale to the right side. Laterally bend to the right side. Turn your head and look at your left palm. Attention on your chest. Inhale and come up. Pose. Exhale, slowly bring your arms down. Very good. We will do two more rounds. Attention on your chest. Inhale, raise your arms to shoulder level from the sides. Take a pose. As you exhale, laterally bend to your left side. Turn your head and look at your right palm. Take a pose. Attention on your chest. Inhale and come up. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale, laterally bend to the right side. Turn your head and look at your left palm. Attention on your chest. Inhale and come up. Exhale, slowly bring your arms down. Last round. Inhale, raise your arms to shoulder level from the sides. Pose. Attention on your abdomen. Exhale and laterally bend to the left side. Turn your head and look at the right palm. Attention on your chest. Inhale and come up. Pose. Exhale, laterally bend to other side. Turning your head and looking at the left palm. Attention on your chest. Inhale and come up. Exhale, slowly bring your arms down. Very good. Now, you can just lie down on the mat. You can bend your knees, place your heels closer to your body. You can have your legs apart. Knee apart, and place your palms on your abdomen area. Your focus only on your exhalation. How you are breathing out. You can inhale freely. As you exhale, slowly pull in your abdomen area. Let the inhalation happen automatically. Attention on your abdomen. Slow [snorts] and gentle exhalation. Free inhale. Attention on your abdomen. Slow and gentle exhalation. Breathe normally here. Now, you can slowly stretch your legs forward. You can have your legs apart. Arms apart. Chin closer to your neck. Close your eyes and relax your body completely. Here, we will do the Heartfulness relaxation. You can wiggle your toes slightly and relax them. Now imagine a healing energy from the Mother Earth entering into your toes, feet, and ankles relaxing them. Let that energy move up relaxing your calf muscles, knees, thighs, hips. Your legs are completely relaxed. Bring attention to your lower back, your upper back, the entire back completely relaxed. Bring attention to your abdomen area. Relax your abdomen area. Bring attention to your chest. Relax your chest. Bring attention to your shoulders. Let all the tensions melt away from your shoulders. Bring attention to your upper arms, lower arms, all the way up to your fingertips. Your arms completely relaxed. Bring attention to your neck. Relax your neck. Bring attention to your face. Relax all your facial muscles. From top of your head to the toes, the entire body completely relaxed. Slowly bring attention to your heart. Feel the love and light radiating from your heart. Stay here for few breath. Now slowly bring your attention back to your body. You can wiggle your toes, your fingers. Now keep your eyes closed and slowly turn into any one side. Stay for a few breath. Now, with the help of your arms, slowly come to a seated posture. Keeping your eyes closed. Here you can sit comfortably and observe yourself.