[Music] When is International Day of Yoga celebrated annually? On 21st June? Option C. Which country proposed the idea of International Day of Yoga at the United Nations? India. Option C. In which year was the International Day of Yoga celebrated for the first time? In 2015, option B, who proposed the idea of celebrating International Yoga Day to the UN? Narendra Modi. Option A. Which organization officially declared 21st June as the International Day of Yoga? UNGA United Nations General Assembly Option D. What is the theme of International Yoga Day 2025? It's yoga for one earth, one health. Option B, why was 21st June chosen for International Yoga Day? It's longest day of the year. Option A. In which city was the first international day of yoga celebrated in 2015? New Delhi. Option C. What significance does the summer solstice hold in yoga philosophy? Spiritual renewal. Option D. Which Indian Ministry hosts the IDY events? Ministry of Aush option C. Which Indian state has launched a campaign Yogandra 2025 recently for yoga day Andhra Pradesh. Option B. Yoga bandhan refers to yoga partnerships with 10 countries. Option D. Where will the Aush Ministry host Yoga Connect Global Summit, Delhi? Option A. Which awards will be given during IDY 2025? Prime Minister's Yoga Awards option B. What will be the prize money for PM Yoga Awards? 25 lak rupees option C. Which initiative has been launched by Jharkand Estate before yoga day? Yoga Olympiad option D. Jarkand also launched yoga man Jharkand which institute was founded in 1918 for yoga research the yoga institute in Mumbai option B where is the world's first yoga museum the yogindra museum of classical yoga located in Mumbai option C. When was the international yoga stamps issued by UNPA? 2017. Option A. When was the commemorative 10 rupees coin for yoga day released? India 2015. Option B. Which dity is considered the first yogi? Adi yogi. Lord Shiva. Option C. Which campaign was launched on 9th June 2025 in Delhi in connection with yoga day? A pale mar nam 2.0 option B. Which of the following is a key component of the common yoga protocol? Asas, pranayam and dhan. Option C. Which yoga posture is ideal for meditation? Padmasana. Option B. Which of the following breathing techniques is part of yoga? All of the above. Option D. What is the name of the yoga practice involving breathing exercises? Pranayam. Option A. What is the traditional text that defines the philosophy of yoga? Patanjali yoga sutras. Option C. Which branch of yoga emphasizes physical postures yog what is surya namaskar in yoga it's a series of 12 poses option B what is the name of the town in Uttarakhand famous for yoga ashams Rishih option C. What is the primary objective of celebrating International Day of Yoga? It's to spread health awareness and harmony through yoga. Option D. Thanks for watching. See you in the next video.