Namaste and welcome to Akashwani Kohuhima FM Chapan 103 Meghertz where voices inspires and wellness takes center stage. I'm your host Asuno and today we are diving into a practice that is more than just movement. It is a part to harmony, balance and holistic living. In the spirit of this year's powerful theme, yoga for one earth, one health, we explore how yoga, ancient gift to the world, nurtures not just our individual well-being, but also our collective connection to nature and the planet. Whether you are a total beginner or just yoga curious, today's conversation will guide you gently into the essential of starting your yoga journey and shows how even small steps on the mat can lead to big changes in your life and in the world around you. Joining us today is Kuza Lawrence as certified yoga instructor from Aayush Nagland. Welcome Lawrence to our program. Thank you. Firstly let's start with the team yoga for one earth one health it is powerful in your view how does yoga relate to this idea okay see the meaning of yoga is to join or to unite so it is a balancing or harmonizing the body mind and emotions the phrase for one earth one health is the interconnection of human well-being and health of the planet just as Yoga literally means union. It is not only the union of the body and mind but also of the individual and with the world around them to live in peace with ourself and nature. One earth one health means the health of people animals and planet all are connected. Thank you Mr. Lawrence for explaining how yoga relates to the theme yoga for one earth one health. You have made it clear that yoga can truly be a bridge between inner peace and global harmony. Many of our listeners, particularly the young people, might be curious, maybe even a little skeptical. What would you say to someone who never tried yoga before or hesitant about it? If you have never tried yoga before or if you are unsure about it, I totally understand with you. At first glance, yoga might seem like just a stretching or something only certain people do. But yoga is for everyone. Okay? Remember this. Yoga is for everyone. You don't need to be flexible or spiritually rich to do yoga. Okay? It is not about being perfect. It's not a competition. It's just a space for you to feel better, think clearer, and move freely. You can begin with simple movements and breathing exercises that will definitely help you feel more relaxed, focused and energized. Especially it will help you with your daily stress and just everyday pressures. Your explanation will definitely help those who are hesitant to practice yoga. It is reassuring to know that yoga can truly be adapted to every individual's comforts and pace. So for those listening our conversation especially our younger audience what is one simple steps they can take today to bring yoga into their life. For everyone listening especially our younger friends here is one simple step you can take today. So start with just 5 minutes of mindful or deep breathing. Find a quiet spot. Sit comfortably. Close your eyes gently and take a very slow deep breath in and out through your nose. Do this for just 5 minutes. That's it. This simple practice can help you feel relaxed and calm. The 5 minute steps you mentioned will surely help not only the beginners but everyone in general. And what is great is that this can be practiced anywhere whether you are at home, in the office or even outdoors. It is simple yet powerful way to start integrating yoga into daily life. Why is yoga becoming more relevant in today's fastpaced world? Okay, today yoga is becoming more relevant. It is because yoga offers exactly what many people are missing. Okay, that is balanced life, calmness and connection. Today many health problems like stress, anxiety, depression and even a high blood pressure. All this began with the mind. Now yoga is a powerful tool to help relax all this mental pressure and offers natural healing from within. For instance, see like students and working adults face constant pressure from work pressure, studies and social media activities leading to lack of sleep or anxiety. Or like people who spend more hours sitting whether at decks, on screens or commuting tend to have back pain, stiffness, poor posture or even lifestyle diseases. In this way, modern life has become full of stress, distraction and pressure mentally, physically and emotionally. Here, yoga offers a simple yet a powerful way to help in almost all the problems seen in the present stage. It is because the science of yoga and its techniques are oriented to suit the physiological needs and lifestyle to reset, reconnect and stay balanced inside and outside as well. Absolutely. It is time where everything is moving so quickly. Yoga reminds us to pause, breathe and be present. It is not only just a physical practice. It is a tool for mental clarity and emotional resilience. So how does yoga help reduce stress and why it is that important for personal and planetary health? Yoga reduces stress by calming both the body and mind. It uses its breathing techniques to slow the heart rate and relax the nervous system. It uses gentle movements to release physical tensions. It uses meditation to relax our resting thoughts. Our thoughts never ends. It keeps on racing. So meditation helps that. When you are doing yoga, that means you are concentrating on your postures and breathing and you slowly forget about your stress and create a sense of inner peace. Yoga is also important for our personal and planetary health because see when stress is slow, our immune system, our sleep, our mood and our focus improves and we feel healthier. Now when people are calm and mindful they make better choices towards their surroundings as well like treating others and nature with respect, reducing waste and consuming less for a sustainable world. That's a very beautiful perspective that you have shown to us. It really shows how inner well-being isn't just about personal health. It is deeply connected to the health of our communities and the planet. A calm mind can lead to more conscious choices and that's something we truly need today. Can yoga be adapted for people with health issues or limited mobility? How inclusive it is really for all body types and ages? See, yoga can be practiced by all age groups. In yoga, there are various postures which is meant for certain diseases or health issues. Mhm. So accordingly the types of practices will be done for the particular illness. So accordingly everyone who wishes to practice yoga can do it and practice yoga and get the benefit out of it. And as I've mentioned earlier, yoga is not about being perfect. It is not a competition. So all body types and all ages can practice yoga according to their abilities. I'm sure our listeners who want to start yoga must be curious to know when is the best time for yoga. The best time to practice yoga is in the morning with empty stomach since in the morning our mind is free from all tensions and our bodies is also fresh after a deep sleep. So morning is the best time to practice yoga. If not in the evening also we can practice but that will be with empty stomach or light stomach. That's such an insightful information that you have given to us. We shall take a small commercial breakibility from home. Stretch and chill. Welcome back. You are tuning to Akashwani Kohima FM Traapan 103 Meghertz. We are in conversation with Mr. Lawrence yoga instructor from Aayush Naglant on yoga for beginners with a team yoga for one earth one health. So in a world where we are glued to screens and stress out by studies or work, how can yoga help us stay mentally and physically balanced? Yeah. So today where we spend hours glued to screens and feel constant pressure from our work activities, yoga offers a powerful way to bring back balance both mentally and physically. As discussed earlier, breathing exercise and meditations would calm the nervous system, helping us feel mentally relaxed and focused. Also, gentle stretches releases body tightness and increases blood flow, leaving us feeling refreshed, strengthening our muscles, spines, and joints. Are there any specific yoga practices or principle that encourage more mindful eco-friendly live? What kind of practices are best for beginners as well as for person with busy schedules in yoga philosophy? Uh there are eight stages called the ashtanga yoga okay or the eightfold parts out of which the first is called the yama which is the social discipline. Here one is taught how to treat with others the society how to treat the society or how to behave in the society and the environment around us. The second stage is called the nyama or the personal discipline. Here one is taught how we take care of ourselves like cleanliness or how to be content with what we have or how to discipline ourselves and so on. These two philosophy of yoga directly support and encourage sustainable and eco friendly living. And as you have asked what kind of practices yoga practices are best for beginners or person with busy schedule some lucin exercises. Okay. Yeah. There are certain loosening exercises which increase the micro circulation of our body. So those are the best for beginners and also some breathing techniques and some yoga practices are there for the beginners. So slowly slowly with time they adapt to it and they get uh used to it. Okay. Yes. What are some of the common misunderstanding about yoga that people often get it wrong? Yeah. This this is this should uh be cleared from our mind about the misconception of about this yoga. See we feel that this yoga is a form of religion. But I see it's not a form of religion but it is for all the religions. Yes. The next one we think that only flexible persons can perform yoga but as I've said all age people can perform yoga yes according to their own abilities and we also think that yoga and physical exercise are same but in physical exercise we mainly focus on this on the physical side but whereas in yoga it is an holistic approach. Okay. So those two are completely different and also we think that only some set of people can do yoga but it's for all and some feel some might also feel that it's very expensive but I tell you it's very cheap it's free of cost you learn the steps and you can practice yoga that really helps clear things up yoga isn't about being perfect it is about showing up for yourself with patient and presence for those listening in and feeling inspired Right? If someone wants to start yoga, is there any studio in Kuhima where they can join? So now yoga is becoming very popular and persons who wish to practice also they should take proper care that they go to certified yoga instructors. So here in our state especially in Nagalen we have three integrated aus hospital where three yoga certified teachers uh instructors are posted. Okay. One is in Noklak, one is in Dimapur, one is here in Kuima at uh Raja Jimma. Okay. So if you wish to practice yoga, you can go there, get consultation from the doctors and you can get uh the help from the yoga instructors here. Far as my knowledge is concerned, there are six, seven certified yoga instructors from our state but they are posted all across the state in different hospitals. Okay. So I don't see anyone having a separate studio for practicing yoga. That's wonderful to hear. It's always encouraging to know that there is a supportive space nearby to begin your journey. And lastly, a word of encouragement to our listeners on International Day of Yoga. See in the middle of our busy life your body your breath and your mind needs your care. So today gift or present yourself a moment of peace by stretching breathing and smiling that is yoga that is healing. Once again wishing you all a very happy international day of yoga. Thank you Mr. Lawrence for being with us today and for sharing your wisdom. And that brings us to the end of today's conversation on yoga for one earth one health. We have learned that yoga isn't about perfections or flexibility. It is about connection. Connection with our breath, our body, our communities and the earth that sustain us. If you are just beginning, remember even one mindful bread, one stress or one moment of stillness is a powerful act of self-care and planetary care. A big thank you to our guest Mr. Ku Zashir Lawrence, our own yoga instructor from Aayush Nagland for sharing such valuable insights and making yoga feel accessible for everyone. And thank you dear listeners for tuning in and taking this mindful pause with us. Until next time, stay grounded, stay kind, and remember one earth, one health and one bread at a time. Wishing all our listeners a very happy International Day of Yoga.