Namaskar. Today it's May 29th, 2026. Welcome to day 77 of Satvic Yogi Path. Each year on March 14 begins my 100 days journey in returning to the essence of yoga towards the celebration of international day of yoga on June 21st. This year I chose to revisit Mahersi Patanjali's yog sutra and share my daily practices inspired by it. Once again welcome to day 77 of satic yogi. Today it is yog sutra 2.26 or the 26th yog sutra from the second chapter sadhanapad. Yesterday in day 76 we learned that when a vidya ends misidentification ends the false conjunction ends and the seer rests in kal. Today Patanjali tells us how a vidya ends and mashipanjali gives us one method. Vive kati uninterrupted discriminative knowledge. So let us first practice to recite yogra 2.26. Let's do it again. Hanoa uninterrupted discriminative knowledge is the means to sensation. Let us break it down word by word to understand a little better. So the yoke sutra is vive. This is the word vive kati which means discriminative knowledge or the clear seeing of difference. Clear seeing of difference. That's vive. Then comes a whip lover. A whiplo which means uninterrupted or not shaken, steady, uninterrupted. And then the means to sessation which comes down to the meaning of the means to the sessation of a vidya mis inter misidentification is uninterrupted discriminative knowledge. Maharashi Patanjali explains this way that Vive Kati is a continuous clarity that sees the seer as seer, the seen as seen, the eternal as eternal, the changing as changing, the self as the self, and the non self as the nonself. This clarity must be steady, unbroken, unshaken, continuous, not a moment of clarity, but a stream of clarity. And this is the heart of Viveati. Remember not a moment of spiritual insight, not glimpses of spiritual insight but unwavering awareness, continuous a stream of clarity. So here is a story from our daily life to better understand that I will use as an analogy to understand yogra 2.26. Imagine a lamp in the dark room. Imagine a lamp in the dark room. If the lamp flickers, shadow appears in the flicker. Shadow appears. Shapes distort because of the flickering lamp. Fear arises. Confusion returns. But what if the lamp is steady in the dark room? The lamp is steady. What happens? Everything becomes clear. Nothing is threatening. Nothing is confusing. Nothing is misunderstood. So the steady lamp is vive the uninterrupted discriminative knowledge. A flickering lamp is a momentary clarity, a glimpse. It's like the glimpse of spiritual insight. But a steady lamb is uninterrupted [clears throat] clarity. Vive kakati mipatanjali is saying that freedom comes not from a moment of clarity but from a continuity of clarity. So you don't have to fight the cliche or the afflictions of mind. You only have to see clearly continuously. That's the condition. Continuously. So when clarity becomes continuous, bondage becomes impossible. So what are we practicing today? We notice one moment of clarity and then we extend it for a few breaths. One moment of clarity and then we extend it for a few breaths and then gentle repetition and then bhavna on steady seeing. contemplating on steady seeing. So let us practice our stillness practice starting with steady and settling our breath. So make sure you're sitting on your sitting bones and your back and spine is straight and you're looking at a point at the eye level and with roll your shoulder if you have to. So your chest opens up. Place one hand gently over your navl and with your smile you may close your eyes and just breathe gently from the navl and also it falls back as you breathe out on your navl. So let us do this. And just relax. Breathing in and out right from your navl and feel the movement as you breathe in the movement around your navl. Breathe out. As you breathe in, you have your hand over your nabi and it the area extends. As you breathe out, it distends. So observe. Breathe in. Breathe out. And once your breath has softened and your body is steady, now we move on to bring to your mind one situation where clarity flickers. Clarity flickers. Let me quickly give a shout out to Sha So Clean. Excellent. I love your username because it has this word clean in it. Sean, thank you so much for joining today's session. Thank you. Thank you so much. So now you would bring one situation where clarity is shaken. It's like not steady. It's like a glimpse of clarity. So a ma moment where you know the truth but forget it then remember again. So any situation where you know the truth but forget it and then you remember again. So it is it's like the flickering flickering lamp. Thank you Sean's ro clean. You're wonderful. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. So now when you have noticed you have brought one situation uh where clarity flickers now you would ask gently. Thank you. Thank you. What would uninterrupted clarity feel like here? Before I move on, I would love to know Sean in your I'm sure you also have some days very busy in your life. So when you have the most busiest day, how do you first do you find time for yourself to just relax or you know recharge yourself to be ready for the next busy moment? And if yes, how do you do that? Do you sing? Do you dance? Do you play an instrument? or do you fly plane? Now I said this because just today um I came to know that there is a Broadway show guitarist um who relaxes by flying plane. Wow. I was like amazing. I've never heard something like that. So he flies plane also. So he's building up on flying hours but that is how he relaxes his mind. That was amazing. I heard it for the first time. So how do you relax when it is a hectic day for you or it's one of your most busiest day? How do you first do you find time to do so? And if yes, how do you do it? So please do write in the comment box. So now you would ask gently what would uninterrupted clarity feel like here? So let the question open space. So once you have asked that we would practice. So today we are going to practice Om three times as we have practiced before. It's like every day it's the 77th day and we have been practicing for over 50 days now. So the rises from the belly the which moves through the chest and the softens at the lips. So let us do it three times. But remember you have already asked yourself this question that what would uninrupted clarity feel like here. Let's begin. Take few shallow breaths. And I hope you have one hand gently placed over your neighbor. Nabi. Nabi is the Sanskrit word for naval. And Sanskrit is an ancient language from India. And if you are practicing yoga, yoga is in the Sanskrit language. So let's begin. as we take a deep breath in and we exhale with. So we do it three times. Take a deep breath in. Take a deep breath in. And the last Take a deep breath in. And just stay in the moment. Relax the space between your eyebrows. and just drop your tongue at the floor of the mouth. Create a small space between your teeth and with your smile on just relax. And slowly open your eyes. And now we contemplate on clarity. Continuous clarity. Let my clarity be continuous just like the steady lamp not flickering in the dark room but steady flame. And just hold this thought. Take a soft breath and open your eyes. Excellent. That completes our stillness practice for day 77. So like every day today your challenge day 77 challenge take one moment of clarity today and extend it for a few breaths. One moment of clarity and then contemplate on the clarity for a few breaths. Breathe in your breathe in and out. Make it softer rising from your nabi navl and falling back on the navl. That's the challenge. Day 77 teaches us that the means to freedom. What is means to freedom? To overcome the cycle of suffering. The means to freedom is uninterrupted discriminative knowledge which is the clear distinction of the seer from the scene. The face, the mirror, the purush, which is the pure awareness from the material world that is procriti. Clear distinction. When clarity becomes continuous, a vidya dissolves. Misidentification dissolves. and the seer stands free. So tomorrow we explore the stages of Vive Kati and how clarity deepens step by step. Thank you for your presence today on day 77. We meet again tomorrow. Until then, stay warm, stay open, and most importantly, stay honest to your own story. I thank you all for your presence. Thank you.