Narendra Modi. chief guest Mike Dr. Raindra Rao, Director CC Raindra Gordal. [Music] Sir, I hand over the mic to you. Guest bouquet shaw or momento sir. Zordalia, chief guest. Hardika momento bouquet or shaw. schedu. Swami Ramit sir Maharaj Gaani to witness this beautiful brand and grand event of celebrating 10 years of international yoga day all across the world. Shatan Sarasati Gidan Sarasati Swag. [Music] Dal vision. Sir, I pray for Yoga, Shrimati Monalisa Dashi. dignitaries. or special pres one health. beautifully aligns with the idea of holistic well-being for both humanity and the planet. Yoga for one earth, one health. Yoga is more than just a physical practice. It is a way of life that fosters harmony between the body, mind and environment. The theme one one earth one health reminds us that our health is deeply connected to the health of the planet. By practicing yoga, we nurture personal well-being, support a sustainable lifestyle, create global harmony. This International Yoga Day, let's commit to inner balance and outer harmony. or celebration. Silence. Observe. Silence observe. Abham program. Chanting Shanti Romesh Gas. Say this event. Omri Ganesha. [Music] Oh sh. [Music] Oh shi. [Music] [Music] Harch. [Music] [Music] [Music] Son [Music] of Bish. for [Music] [Music] I touch my [Music] heart. Shanti right now. I must tell very proudly that today over 300 million people worldwide practice yoga regularly. yoga regularly and the global yoga industry values at present $115 billion and it is projected to reach $273 billion by 2034. The scope is immense for all of us. Various studies have also revealed that around 11.8% of our population practice yoga regularly. Global yoga studies and medit research have grown impressively in the due course of time. The world's leading health institutions have validated that our rees and monies knew thousands of y years ago that yog is an important tool for both physical, mental and spiritual growth. By now the world has realized that the health of humans, animals and the environment are interconnected. But I must proudly say that in our Indian culture we believe in basund kutumbakam the principle meaning the world is one family. So we have all the time grown taking all these three aspects into account together. So it's a philosophy emphasizing the interconnectedness of all beings and promoting global harmony and unity. This year's theme yogurt and one health beautifully aligns with this concept of India. I would like to highlight the major highlight plans of this summit is we'll be launching the yogab report that is aimed at showcasing the transformative impact of the observation of international day of yog over the past 10 years. Ebook release of ebook highlighting the IDY celebration over the last decade. a book on Bhartya Brixia by Bamu and a report of Pah India and the release of yog therapy videos as part of yog samabes by CCN. Once again I welcome all the speakers who have come online and offline for this event across the globe and all the delegates both national and international for participating in this event. I am sure today's deliberation will lead to transformative ideas towards development of this science yoke. Thank you so much ma'am for highlighting the key points of today's event and welcoming everybody. Now I would request our next guest Sri Chidanand Saraswati G Maharaj spiritual head Parat Nikitan Asham to address the gathering. [Music] Serch. Gory not [Music] to [Music] journey today. Oh my sama. [Music] Gamba. [Music] Oh, shanty shanty. Shant thee. Most respected my Priya Abhin Puja Swami Ramdev honorable ministers a very dedicated very committed to this great cause in the nation our honorable minister Shri Kajendra Singh Shakavaji honorable minister Shri Prattabra Jadav GI and the very dedicated secretary to the Aish department Shri Rajesh Vya Kotaji Vya Rajesh Kotaji or Matriaki who has shown the word yoga is the way. Our Adana Hans Gi, our Subat Diwari GI, Monali Sataji, our Ragavendra Ravaji and the MC all the beautiful divine yogis, yoga lovers, all the yoga teachers and the yoga seekers. It's so beautiful to be here today. We are not merely gathered here. We are together here in the name of yoga, in the name of peace, in the name of harmony. And we are together here today to give the world a very clear and bold message. Youth is not the way. Yoga is the way. Youth is not the way. We can see the pieces everywhere. What is happening all over the world? Maybe many reasons are there. Always reasons are there. But we have to see all these wars are bringing peace or turning our world to pieces. Yoga is the way because yoga never create pieces. Even you are in pieces brings you back into the peace because peace is the way. Peace and if you are in pieces what you share only pieces that's why peace is very important and this is our choice yoga gives you that choice you want to live in peace or in pieces that's why our honorable prime minister of India tapasi pradhan mantrish narendra Modi g when she he went to the United Nations s I remember I was there in the United States and the first time no hesitation that I'm speaking in Hindi no hesitation that I'm talking about my own culture today we are living in the AI age artificial intelligence age we are very proud of it okay great at the same time in the advancement this AI is going to replace so many people they will be jobless. But our rishies gave a vision which will make nobody jobless. Whatever the job you are doing, you can feel vibrant, radiant, you can recharge every day yourself through yoga and the AI our rishies give in beautiful way AI to RAI. The yoga is turning from AI to RAI are building the bridge between the AI and RAI. Artificial intelligence to Rishi's intelligence. Rishi's intelligence. This is Rishi's intelligence. That's why honorable prime minister of India when he went to the United Nation immediately without bringing any other agenda without even bringing India talking about anything he said let me take one thing in their minds yoga and India will be there and today you see yoga is everywhere yoga is everywhere and yoga means means oneness. One man, one mission. Yoga and yoga means awareness. Yoga means union. Yoga means oneness, togetherness, inclusiveness. That's what power of yoga is. Includes all, excludes none. That's what yoga is, which is very scientific. Suboji knows he's working on this direction. Swami G is day and night 24/7 always there 3:00 to 10:00 yoga yoga yoga why yoga because yoga is for all as sun moon stars air and water is for everyone yoga is for everyone and yoga is for all yoga is scientific yoga is beyond religions yoga is beyond religions when we are talking about one and today when I see the people it makes me very much in pain creates a very painful situation when people are online all the time everybody you know how many mobiles we have in our nation 124 cr mobiles 120 20 kores mobiles and four kores landline connection total is 124 crores it means everybody is online. No problem. Be online. But don't forget being online is not enough where you have to be aligned to yourself to your dear and near ones. That connection is gone. And yoga provides that connection. Yoga tells you how to be online. Yes. But how to bridge in online and how to become aligned? Both you need it. Both are connection. Internet. Great. Be on internet gives you the speed to the world but disconnect to yourself to the others. Yoga tells you scroll five times a day doesn't matter keep scrolling but at least one time go to your soul also yoga gives you the connection between the scroll and the soul that you should not forget [Music] 51% 51% 51% corporate report are facing depression 51%. It's a amazing number. That's why yoga is very important. Is yoga is the way to more meditation less medication. When we are talking about one earth and one health, one earth Earth is our mother and we are the children of our mother earth. Like when we talk about one health, one health is not my health. If this is my health, we are very selfish. It's not my health. It's the health of all. We never talk about my health. are human beings. We talk about the living beings. When we are talking about the relation between the human beings and the living beings, you need yoga. [Music] You will never be happy. You will never be healthy. yourself. Let us connect between internet and internet and that is called yoga. Life is not a collection. Life is a connection. People are being very rich. But it's not the only aim. Yoga was not for collection. Yoga was for connection. And that connection like a yogis union all our conferences all these efforts our honorable ministers is doing and our India is doing believe me will take people in a such a great height or last but not the least all the yogis you people I think we need a green yoga and green yogis Green yoga. Green yogis. for one day [Music] is not the way but yoga is the way. Peace is the way which is paramount. Next guest of honor, Shrimati Hansi Yogendra, head the Yoga Institute and President Indian Yoga Association. Um or yoga enthusiast. Yes. forch. G1 [Music] reaction intellect. Mi Shastra Krishna Chakra or strong. Compassion. [Music] for the yoga institute. Um, Ukraine. Di center. Y Please mri sham. So [Music] mobile respect. mobile. Come [Music] Let me tell you. Yoga for householders. Compassion is the most relevant emotion. Diwari Gab CEO Zordala, Secretary General IA [Music] It is a pleasure to be here in this event during the yoga connect which joins the global community of yoga. We come together to celebrate the universal language of yoga. As we practice, let's remember that yog transcends borders. cultures and backgrounds. Let's foster global connect among yoga fraternity, sharing knowledge, wisdom, and practices. Together, we can promote peace, harmony, and well-being worldwide. Let's breathe, move, and unite as one yoga community. As the secretary general of the Indian yoga association, I'm happy that the association is on the front of joining the variety of traditions and lineages and uniting all of them and we are happy to join and collaborate in this momentous occasion. I would also take this opportunity to congratulate the ministry of Aayush for conceptualizing this international day of yog in a very very beautiful manner in which we are celebrating through various dimensions and this program today yoga connect is going to be very interesting. It gives various dimensions of the progress in various fields. So I am so happy all of us are here and we will take our learnings forward and again connect the yoga fraternity together. Thank you. Madam Swami Ram G Maharaj [Music] Physically fit physically, mentally, emotionally, spiritually, politically discipline. Discipline of your body, discipline of your mind. [Music] such a or Mantri, World Health, World Peace, All harmony organiz Shanti yogo. for BP sugar. yoga. I think [Music] Well, control Yogandech. Yashi.ch. for Department culture and tourism. Culture or tourism brand. Culture tourism. [Music] forch. [Music] Wait for him. Anti-aging longevity depression. [Music] minimum. Yogi You can build the through yoga. BP sharks. for competition. Swami wrestling yogi yogi yogi. Trump. such. Trump. Huh? foreign. [Music] Oh, [Laughter] yoga. forational [Music] yoga. [Applause] Amen. Minister, capitalist. We have yoga. We have Okay. for [Music] working hours. Master correct. Huh? 99% mentally emotionally yoga. culture and tourism. Intelligence Gandhami G [Laughter] humor. Important milestone. Release of yoga prahav report by CCR YN. Teamation. Teamation. Team Surve. [Music] [Music] [Music] Team survection key is manup. Felicitate Zordalia. Big round of applause for the team. Shriab Jadav Gelit. Lot of study, lot of research goes into it. Is give a big round of applause to the team. Let's motivate them to do further such research and present the book, publish the book, bring the knowledge forward. The natad release of book a scientific analysis scentotric analysis of yoga's global influence by pelle India and CCR yn zordalia Team Felicitation. It's a proud moment for the team because the book has been released after a lot of research, lot of analysis, lot of R&D has been done, efforts. We appreciate that. Now we move forward. We're releasing. Okay. So we will present momento to the team request team. Hard workerve research analysis. A big round of applause to the team. towards the next release of booksham Sanskriti foundation and CCN request is Okay. Efforts. Moment page team request team moment to diagna. stage to release an ebook on International Day of Yoga, the yogic path of a statement vision over a decade. [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Body these Sundar Johand compilation I'm felicitate Now we will release yoga samba video. A yoga samavves video. Yog savves. Swast Shar, Shantan or Sanitam. [Music] [Music] Asanas [Music] danulastand [Music] zordalia. request. Honorable Minister of State, ICU and MOS Health and Family Welfare address gathering. Namaskar. for [Music] [Music] Connect Gajendra Vishikatu Ada Swami Baba Ramde Maharaj Parata Nikitan Asham Adhat Guru Adia Swami Chidan Saraswati Gharata Yog Association Adjax Sri Mati Hans Gi Yogendra Kala Dam CEO Bhart Yog Association Sachu Sri Subotari Gay Sachu Wajes Kot GI sik to sachu srimati monalis gi cc nesak dr ragendra raji bharat von yurugan vishakna y prashiku priy or namaskar Fore! [Music] Foreign! Foreign! Joiman say Jud Bio Mahar Manar or Narendra Modi, Holistic Health. Sha ling Silicon Valley Ga Sati [Music] wor C R Y N Y P Say yoga worship Sharing [Music] yogi. Show the Health, wellness. Diabetes. Cancer. forgiven. American dollar shik. Global wellness economy. Fore! Foreign! Foreign! Signature events. Foreign common protocol or this circan or admi is Ian Jinhad request chief guest Shri Gajayendra Singh Shikhavajo the honorable minister culture and minister of tourism government of India mic handi Jesus see clear Yoga connect. Maybe Foregra yoga guru. by [Music] Swami Ramde. Swami Garupi [Music] yogendra kum meand Wes Rajesh Kesal Raguendra G Yoguru, youth icons. [Music] [Music] yoga Connect. Global turbulence, geopolitical turbulence. Yoga is an I Rajes verse Okay, women. United Nations. Amul, Shirka, Vari, Manushi or Swasty. Just [Music] And G. G1 atm shanti. Sanskritic atma. Yog Connect. Scientificolog aspects. Neck commitment. commitment. [Music] Soft for [Music] disconnect. Disconnect. for Bunnat. Maybe. s topies. [Music] [Music] Scientifically valid economic model. Cultural pro Orangeom. Wishes Narendra Modi Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. automatically. Yeah. Transform. [Music] complete cycle which starts uniting us but ultimately it detach us from that Ultimately we lead towards detachment or ultimate detachment. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Foreign speech. for Mat. Yoga connected as a global yoga summit felicitate Sri Chidan Saraswati G felicitate Mantri Sajendra Singh Shikhaw knowledge shareh. Sra Jadav Gabriad [Music] knowledge share support [Music] to take the mission ahead. Dr. Raguendra Rao Gi director CCR Yana of thanks. So I hand over the mic to Dr. Ragbain Raw. Konamaskar sir on behalf of CCR and Ministry of Aayush and Maja National Institute of Yoga and the entire institutes of Aayush Ministry. I deeply thank Sri Baja Singh Shikawaj G honorable ministry of culture and tourism government of India Prattabra Jaja G honorable minister of Aayush Independent charge and ministry of state for health and family welfare. Sir under your dynamic leadership and you have brought a spark to the IOS ministry in the field of yoga and this year we are celebrating the 10th anniversary of yoga in a very large grandeur with 10 flagship programs. It was because of your entiring efforts and your support sir this has been possible. Thank you very much sir. I also thank river Swami G Ram gi Maharaj former chairman Pati Yokpit trust Haridwar who made this session very lively with his words inspiring words and he put yoga so in such simple language that even layman can understand it is sir because of your untiring efforts yoga is now in every household in our country sir I thank you for this thank you sir I al I also have heartfelt gratitude to respected swami chalan swati g the spiritual head of paradikan who has talked very beautifully about inner connectedness. We have been in the outside world. We are thoughts and senses are always towards the outside world. And he is able to make us feel how to be connected inwards and he has really given a heartfelt heart. He has touched all of our hearts with his wisdom and with his eloquent speech. Sir and special thanks to Hansi Yogendra Yogen GI President Indian Yoga Association head of yoga institute Mumbai. She has talked very much about how to join intellect and emotions. Emotional intelligence is the need of the hour. Compassion is the need of the hour. Thank you so much ma'am for your wisdom. I also I also thank Shisubotari chief executive officer of Kava Dam general secretary Indian yoga association for your contribution to the field of yoga research being the very being being one of the oldest yoga research institutes in the country. uh starting yoga research since the year of 1924 onwards with a journal called yoga mimsa and you have been leading the crossbearer of this institution sir I thank you for your presence here I also thank our dynamic secretary sir wrah kotas gi sir under your leadership this ambitious program was made possible by your skillful administrative leadership policy guidance and continuous encouragement sir I also have my gratitude to shanti malana jash gi who is a joint secretary ministry of Aayush government of India who inaugurated this program with a beautiful welcome speech and invited all the gathering. Last last but not the least I would like to thank all the people who participated in this particular gathering who come here in very large numbers. I know that many people are still waiting in the gates to enter inside here and uh since the hall is full we are not able to accommodate everybody here and it's been overwhelming response to all of us for this particular event. I thank the team surve India. I thank Warun Yoshi G. I also thank Sui Foundation for the notable contributions for the release of these books in this gathering. I thank the media and the publicity team who have come in large numbers to cover this event. I thank the security team, the technical team, the management team, all the staff of CCR, all my colleagues who have worked day and night in last one week to make this program a grand success. And I thank all the yoga institutes here who are coming in large numbers. I I just going to take few names. We have the heartfulness institute, patani yogit, parmatan ashram, the yoga institute, taam, Indian yoga association, ple india and Indian naspati organization, Indian nasapati yoga graduates medical association and all such institutes. Sorry if I have left out some names. There's lot many such institutes from Delhi and outside uh our Delhi Delhi who come here in large numbers especially from even from Rajasthan almost 15U college students have come from 15 colleges from Rajasthan and people have come from Mirat people have come from Hana as well I thank all of them for being here thank you so much Jind now we all stand up we end the session with the national anthem request all of you to please stand Fore! Foreign! Foreign! [Music] foreign [Music] speech. Jati [Music] one day. Thank you. Ab Honorable Chief Patient Hall B scientific session. The kits will be provided here on your seat. So please do not rush to the registration counter. You c you will get your kit here itself on your seat. Thank you so much. We'll gather in some time. Yoga anthem video. [Music] [Music] [Music] The world's leading health science. And the AIDS that connection all this [Music] Ahmedabad crash silence. [Music] Hi everybody, we are going to conduct a scientific session here which is the next program of the day. So the first theme is based on yoga for prevention of NCDS emphasis on anti-obesity and inflammation. This topic discussion research and analysis topic shared by the experts. Swag Dr. Manandha Dr. SC Manchanda cardiologist and senior consultant Sir Gangaram Hospital New Delhi big round of applause. Dr. SC Manha Dr. SC Manchanda is a renowned Indian cardiologist with over six decades of experience. He completed his MBBS, MD in medicine and DM in cardiology all from the prestigious all India Institute of Medical Sciences. He served 36 years at AS rising to head of the department of cardiology and was instrumental in in introducing angoplasty there. After superanuation in 2003, he joined Sir Gangarab Hospital in New Delhi as a senior consultant. Dr. Manchandanda is editor and chief of the journal of prevention, cardiology contributing over 300 scientific papers and holistic means such as yoga, medit meditation, diet and lifestyle. Beyond clinical work, Dr. Manchanda chairs the advisory board of the DIA foundation which supports underprivileged children and the elderly. In recognition of his significant contributions to medicine, he was awarded the Padma Shri by the government of India 2004. in 2004. Zordali Good afternoon friends. Welcome to this very important session. I'm sorry that we are late but I think this is one of the most important practical utilities of yoga that is yoga for prevention of non-communicable diseases. As you all know that we have conquered communicable disease to a great extent. Earlier people used to die of plague and other communicable diseases but now majority of the population is dying because of non-communicable diseases. These are diseases which are not caused by any infective agent but our unhealthy lifestyle as we call lifestyle diseases and they are responsible for majority diseases leading them is the heart disease high blood pressure diabetes is there there are lung diseases there are uh stress and management uh stress uh and uh depression all these diseases are increasing rapidly especially in the developing countries and in spite of the fact although we uh progress quite a lot in heart disease. We can even do a transplant. We can do a bypass. But their uh incidence is increasing and therefore there is need for something more than the conventional uh means that we are following. And therefore yoga has been found to be one of the extremely good uh uh techniques to control these non-communicable diseases and that's a very cost effective technique and I think we will in this session we'll be uh listening to uh a large number of speakers who are very very eminent not only from India but also from United States of America. because we are behind time. I will request the speakers to limit their uh talk to about 7 to 8 minutes only because we have seven speakers in 1 hour and all. And uh to start with I will invite Dr. Prabhakran Duray Raj to uh give us the first talk. Dr. Prabhakran Dur Raj is uh a very leading cardiologist. He's one of the best researchers in field of cardiology. He uh did his DM from all Indian Institute of Medical Sciences when I was also there and he is the president of the uh center for chronic diseases one of the uh most brilliant investigators that we have in the country. his uh uh his uh uh research on cardiac rehabilitation after mal infection was for the first time done in 26 centers in India and uh with uniform methodology and this uh paper was published in one of the best journals of uh cardiology journal of American college of cardiology. It was also presented as a late breaking trial in American Heart Association and received a large number of laurels and therefore without taking much time I will hand you over to Dr. Daraj to give his presentation. which is the one this one. Can we have the slides uh please? So good afternoon everyone and um uh sir thank you for that very kind introduction. It's always a pleasure and an honor to be introduced by your own teacher. So Professor Maninda was my teacher in cardiology and then I worked as a faculty under him for several years when he retired in uh 2000. So the talk uh I hope the slides are coming on the uh program is titled as yoga for prevention of NCDS emphasis on anti-obesity and inflammation. I'm not really going to talk about uh obesity and inflammation and if you look at the causes of NCDS there are five major causes diet uh physical activity and decreased physical activity smoking air pollution and alcohol now amongst the diet as Dr. Manga says there are three white poisons sugar the salt and fat and we avoid this we can avoid most of the heart diseases. So with this background what I'm going to give is a perspective of yoga and cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular disease are essentially heart diseases. So when you look at heart diseases heart disease are the leading cause of death in India. Nearly a third of mortality or nearly a third of deaths in India is because of heart diseases and a majority of these deaths occur before the age of 70 years and we call this premature mortality and this is very important to understand because when people die young it's not only a loss to the family it's a loss to the economy and it actually leads to catastrophic expenditure for the family putting the families into poverty among among other things. So the when we talk about cardiovascular disease, we are talking about heart attacks, we are talking about gangrine, we are talking about obesity, we're talking about high blood pressure, we're talking about diabetes and we talking about heart failure. So all of these will comprise heart diseases. Now when we think of yoga, what is yoga to me? And if you look at the Ashtanga yoga literature, there are eight components to yoga. All of which when you compress actually comes into a lifestyle package. And the lifestyle package comes consists of the right diet, avoidance of tobacco, avoidance of alcohol, stress relief, meditation, mindfulness and various physical postures and physical activity along with pranayama. So you can see that it's a it's a holistic lifestyle package and we are not looking at individual components of the yoga here. So how does yoga benefit the heart? Because of posity of time Dr. Mjenda said that I have to finish in 7 8 minutes. I'm not going to get into all the details but suffice to say that yoga is hugely beneficial for cardiovascular disease. There are multiple mechanistic pathways through which yoga acts. It acts on the heart directly. It it acts on several of the risk factors which increase heart diseases and it also is helpful to patients by reducing stress, by relaxing them, by multiple other pathways including reducing inflammation. Therefore, it's it's a no-brainer. So, what was the current evidence? I mean this is 2 years back. There may be a little few more studies but you would be very surprised that there are only 5,000 patients in these uh which which studied yoga overall from amongst 28 published trials. The sample sizes were very small. The duration of followup was very small 24 days to a few years. There's only one study which went for a longer time and um the delivery training was highly variable and the components consisted of individual components of yoga mostly asas or pranayama or meditation. So there were several limitations and because of this um we embarked on a very large study which professor Manganda mentioned called uh the yoga care in acute myio myioardial inffection and there there were several other studies that we participated. So one of the things is post a heart attack or stroke many people have another heart attack or a stroke or even die within the first year. 20% of people who have a heart attack, stroke can die within the um first year. The medicines which we give simple medicine, there are four simple drugs can prevent many of those. But cardiac rehabilitation is an important mechanism by which we can prevent a recurrent heart attack or a recurrent stroke or death. Now what is cardiac rehabilitation? Cardiac rehabilitation comprises a set of activities that include lifestyle modification, having the proper diet, avoidance of tobacco, avoidance of alcohol, increasing uh physical activity and managing uh stress. So this essentially is what is cardiac rehabilitation. But unfortunately in India cardiac rehabilitation is not taken off very well. There are very few hospitals in the country which have cardiac rehabilitation. And the reason for that is is that it's very expensive. You require a physician, you require a nurse, you require a nutritionist, you require a physiotherapist, you require multiple equipments, you require a big area. So we decided that yoga care with a single yoga instructor can provide all the things which a cardiac rehabilitation team can provide. And therefore we devised this uh study called yoga care trial. And our aim was to improve the effectiveness of yoga based uh cardiac rehabilitation and compare it against enhanced standard care in post heart attack patients on cardiac mortality on preventing cardiac death and improving quality of life. And we had two two outcomes. One was to reduce the number of deaths and the second was to improve quality of life. But in addition, we had a range of secondary outcomes that is people had to come back to their work much earlier than expected and a few other things. So in summary, we were we we conducted this uh trial as Dr. Machenda pointed out in 24 centers across the country. We recruited 4,000 close to 4,000 patient. We successfully completed um a large uh randomized control control trial involving almost 3,960 patients of heart attacks. This was a successful collaboration. We could demonstrate that we could do such a large trial in India. Then it was published in a high impact journal. Uh there were several other high impact publications. In fact, there were four public publications and 10 abstracts. And it was presented as a prestigious latebreaking session in the American Heart Association and it was an award-winning abstract in American Heart Association and what we showed was that there was a 9% reduction in deaths but this was not statistically significant but more importantly it really showed the quality of life amongst those who use yoga care was much better than as compared to the usual care. So there's a lot of disturbance. May I request people to settle down a bit? Yeah. Can we request people to settle down a bit? There's a lot of disturbance. I Please sit down. There's a very I request everybody to please sit down and not chitchat in between while the sessions are going on. It is for a wider awareness that we are conducting these programs and if people are talking in between then conveying the message which the speaker wants to convey and spread the awareness share the knowledge will be incomplete. Thank you so much for your cooperation. Okay. Thank you. So what we showed was at the end of the trial a 9% reduction in heart attacks and stroke but this was statistically not significant but there was a significant improvement in quality of life and we showed a feasibility of doing high quality uh cardiovascular disease research in this country and it was very very low cost as compared to the trials which are conducted uh current currently. So moving on what we did was in the post heart attack trial because that was the first trial of yoga and doctors were did not want to participate in the study. In fact we had to do the pilot study in UK to show yoga was safe. After that they started participating in the study but they were recruiting very low-risk patients. But then we had to show uh after one and a half years that it is indeed safe and they started recruiting patients. But where we can see real benefit is in heart failure patient. Heart failure is a condition which is worse than cancer. 50% of the people die by 3 years. The quality of life is extremely poor. It also causes immense amount of stress to um can I request people to stop talking please? speaker connect how do you expect the speaker to connect with you share the knowledge impart what they have understood and make you understand if you're chit chatting in between can we bring some maturity here right thank you very much can I make an appeal please don't talk it disturbs because it disturbs the flow of thought right so we embarked on the heart failure trial As I was saying, heart failure is a condition which is worse than cancer. It causes almost 50% of people who develop heart failure die by 3 years. Now cancer treatment is improved so much that we expect almost 80% survival at 5 years. One of the things is drugs are help drugs help but cardiac rehabilitation will help and that's where yoga is likely to be of great help in terms of reducing mortality as well as improving quality of life. So with the ICMR, Indian Council of Medical Research funding, we have embarked on a very large trial of recruiting 3,500 patient in a randomized fashion either to receive yoga care or usual care in patients with heart failure. It is being done currently in 15 hospitals all across India. In addition, even if you're going to show benefits, we want to understand the mechanisms by which we can show the benefit. There are three major ways by which it can benefit. One yoga actually alters certain biological parameters. We talk about mind body relationship. It's a relationship between the hypothalamus hypothalamus pituitary and the body. So we are looking at hormones which are secreted by the pituitary gland and how yoga modulates that. We are looking at inflammation and we are looking at what we call as renin angotensin system. These are hormones which increase the blood pressure. So in a randomized control fashion we are looking at people does yoga reduce all these bad hormones which increase glucose which increase blood pressure which increase these are called stress hormones. So does it decrease these hormones? That's one question we are asking. Second we are looking at echoc cardiography because echoc cardiography in in patients with heart failure the ejection fraction which the amount of blood pumped by the heart is much lower and we want to see whether yoga can improve that apart from several other parameters of echoc cardiography that we'll be seeing. We also have embarked on using Apple watch which are variable devices which can give you data on sleep quality, heart rate variability, atrial fibrillation or irregularity of the heartbeat. So all of these will be measured and we'll get the results in the next year. We have recruited so far 2,823 patients and we have around 450 clinical events but we need around 740 events to evaluate fully uh the trial very well. We're also uh making it digitally enabled so that patients can train at home. We have provided 19,000 supervised uh hours of uh yoga sessions and patients are practicing around 35 to 40 minutes of yoga on an average after the initial uh training phase and we will finish the study next year and we have multiple partners including CCN, SVASA, Ames, Delhi and others. In addition, we are also doing a trial of yoga in a very very um difficult condition called pulmonary hypertension where the mortality is almost 80 90%. And this trial is being done in uh four or five centers across India and again this is a very similar design where we give heart friendly yoga package to these patients and compare them against usual care. In addition, we are also building capacity of yoga practitioners, yoga trainers and others. So, we have embarked on a certificate course on yoga care for patients of heart attack amongst BNYS graduates. The first batch is actually completing uh today. There's a research forum for young yoga researchers starting in August 2025. My colleague Dr. Chandra Shakar and who's here will be leading this and there will be short workshops on specialized techniques but there are some unressed questions which many of you can think of and apply for grants and do it. I'm just giving you four examples here. One is yoga in hypo hypertension. You can do what is called as ambulatory blood pressure and look at what are called dipping phenomenon which increases the risk of stroke. We can look at the scale of yoga in health promotion. Then we can look at the role of technology. Can we use simple apps to improve yoga practice amongst the population and we can large do large scale implementation science and my colleague again Chandra Shakharan is doing this in the state of Tamil Nadu but finally we need to translate into policy and it has to form part of the guidelines of any cardiovascular care but what we need to do when we are writing our protocol we need to look at the style of yoga dose and delivery of yoga components of the yoga intervention and specific class sequences and we need to deal with modifications, selection of in instructors, facilit facilitation of homebased practice and measurement of intervention fidelity uh of yoga. So to conclude, yoga care has the potential huge potential to reduce unmet care of cardiac rehabilitation India. It can add years to life uh in patients with cardiovascular both years to life as well as life to years in patients with cardiovascular disease. And as my mentor professor Eddie says, science is reductionist. When we learn science, we talk about the body, then we talk about the tissues, then we talk about the organs, then we go into the cells and from the cells we get into the intracellular structures such as nucleus, mitochondria and others. And from that we develop many drugs and many new things. But ultimately a patient is a whole human being. So our solution has to be holistic and I believe yoga is going to be the best holistic solution for managing patients with with disease. So thank you very much for hearing yoga. Thank you Prabhakran for telling us that yoga could be extremely beneficial in prevention of all lifestyle diseases especially cardiovascular disease and thank you for sharing two of the largest studies which are done in the world that is uh cardiac rehabilitation after mal infection and now heart failure which is going to be completed now. I think this is a quality research which has not been done in India earlier and it is getting recognition all over the world. So for the youngsters I would suggest that studies like what Prabakar is doing should be done so that this yoga can come into the scientific backing very soon. Thank you very much. I think uh we will move into the next and we have another brilliant cardiologist Dr. Gautam Sharma. He's uh also one of the very leading cardiologists of the country. He's professor of cardiology at all Indian medical sciences. again my student and he is the one who is the director of integrative medicine at all Indian studio of medical sciences I think it is his efforts which have made this integrative medicine for the first time uh in our country in a premier institution and he's uh done large number of studies not only in cardiology but other fields also I think this type of integrative centers with the uh uh uh with centers of excellent is needed so that we can to our research. So I will hand it over to Dr. Gautam Sharma to give his presentation. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you so much sir. Always a pleasure to be introduced by your teacher and so he was Dr. Manantaa was my teacher in when I was doing maciology and uh now he's my mentor in integrative medicine. Thank you for the kind words sir. All right. So uh so what I have been asked to do is to present a few studies just to give a glimpse of what is the research that we are doing uh pertaining to cardiology. So as sir said that we we uh are doing a lot of research in practically all fields of medicine but here I'm going to present four studies four or five studies related to integrative cardiology. All right. So we um I think most of us from the world of yoga science already know this that the autonomic imbalance has a great impact on cardiovascular disease and this imbalance can be because of many reasons but stress is one of and there are several ways in which uh modern science is trying to address this but these ways are invasive. They have a steep learning curve and they are fraught with great risks and also very expensive. So uh now so what yoga offers uh Dr. Prabhakar has already alluded to this. We all know but the point that I want to make out make here is that yoga is probably an excellent means of non-invasive neuromodary intervention because of meditation, slow breathing and uh because of relaxation techniques that there are in this uh in in yoga. uh it offers stress reduction and smooning out of autonomic imbalance. So we at the center for integrative medicine and research at as are doing research in integrative medicine as you know and there have been several studies that we've already published in fact we've published 28 papers already and and there are a lot of uh trials which are uh underway and as I have pointed out that we are collaborating with 24 specialtities and disciplines such as neurology gastroenterology psychiatry etc. But here I'm going to talk only about cardiology. So this is the first study that we did. You know it was a small study, a pilot study. We just wanted to see how does brah pranayam affect the autonomic nervous system. This was a single session small uh RCT. But what we found here was that there was a s significant augmentation in the parasympathetic tone and we used halters and HRV monitoring uh to assess that. So that was encouraging. Going further, this is a study that we published a couple of years back. This is called the live yoga study. This is a study done in patients who suffer from fainting episodes. And as you can see, this is a famous uh picture from the Buckingham Palace where the guards quite often have this uh fainting uh episodes and they make for good reels on the social media etc. But it it's it's a it's a big problem because modern medicine doesn't really have a cure for basal syncopy. Um and we also know that autonomic imbalance and stress play a role in in these patients. So we thought why not we use a specially designed yoga protocol to address this issue and these are the results. After one year of uh practice in this randomized control trial there was a significant reduction in the number of episodes of presynopy and synopy in patients who practice yoga. Not only that there was a significant reduction in the quality of life improvement in the quality of life domains in patients who practiced yoga. So this study was published in the journal of American college of cardiology. It was presented in the ACC conference and uh it was uh a a major success in the sense that the western world uh of cardiology accepted research in yoga. So we have subsequently done a meta analysis looking at all the studies of yoga in this particular condition and as you can see from the forest plot that there that all the studies are pointing towards one direction which is an improvement a clinical improvement with yoga. So this is the postulated mechanistic explanation we postulated that yoga acts in many ways. So in vasovical syncopy peripheral pooling of blood is very important as a trigger for the whole cascade and here with yoga you can enhance the muscle tone you can enhance the vom motor tone and prevent the pooling yoga breathing and relaxation techniques can inhibit the sympathetic drive the surge that that is again a important part of this reflex there are central triggers which are calm med by meditation and mindfulness and overall by the balancing of the autonomic tone and enhancing the musculine vom motor tone. We thought that v that yoga can help in aborting an episode of voic syncopy and that is what our trial showed. Another condition which is uh very important for us as cardiologists is uh is this. This is a population of patients who have had either an episode of sudden cardiac death that has been aborted or are predisposed to sudden cardiac death. And we implant these uh special devices called uh implantable cardiova defibrillators as you can see here uh in the in in such patients. And these devices are lifesaving and they prevent sudden death by terminating dangerous arrhythmias by giving giving a small shock and other methods as well. But the problem with this device is that it creates a lot of anxiety in these patients and as you know anxiety again stress and autonomic imbalance leads to. We hypothesize that perhaps if we make again a specially population we might prevent uh the arithmic burden in such hand and also reduce the psychological burden. So this is a trial that I did with my colleague in in my department and um so we designed this over the past 10 years. So we just it was a pilot study. We took 100 pages ebook and we of ebook highlighting the ID celebration over the last decade objectives are and the results showed that there was improvement in quality of life and a report in anxiety depression that yog lessen number physical mental and spiritual growth underpowering of the studies. By now the world has realized statistical that the health of humans card rehab professor just talked about so we started this study almost around the same time perhaps in fact a little earlier but this is cardiac rehabilitation in patients who've undergone coronary intervention and why did we choose uh yoga as a means of cardiac rehabilitation that I think Dr. has already told you that yoga fulfills all the goals. Our next guest chan Saraswati G Maharaj spiritual head Paratam to address the gathering to our patients. So this was a yogi CIP trial um and uh Dr. Shilo is here. He was um he was a co-investigator in this study and what we we start we thought that we will take patient and we will uh give them a specially designed yoga module and then we'll see the effect on size duration and the quality of practiced [Music] yoga. Life is not a collection. Life is a connection. [Music] So cost effective. Just finish this. This is looking at another very important set that you see in coronary artery disease patients which is sleep disturbance. These patients suffer from sleep disorders and we thought that let us use yogidra and see whether it affects the uh the sleep disorder in in these patients of koniati disease and we just completed this study and so this is the introduction that I talked finish this. This is looking at another very important set that you see in coronary artery disease patients which is sleep disturbance. These patients suffer from sleep disorders and we thought that let us use yogidra a and see whether it affects the uh the sleep disorder in in these patients of koniati disease and we've just completed uh this study and uh so this is the introduction that I talked about we wanted to see whether yogitra can imp improve the sleep efficiency in these patients. This was the methodology and um so these are the results practically all the aspects of sleep which were measured by an actigraphy watch. This is a very object ive method of assessing sleep efficiency. So all the patients were given an actigraphy watch that they wore and we assessed them from time to time and the result shows that there was an improvement in sleep efficiency, sleep latency and and the amount of time they slept in these patients and and correspondingly there was an improvement in quality of life. So, so um I think I'm almost at the end of my talk and this is the uh IDY 2024 at AllIndian Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi where more than 3,500 participants enthusiastically performed the common yoga protocol. So, um thank you uh for your kind attention and I'm happy to answer questions if any. I think we will have questions later. Thank you very much Goautam for your excellent talk. You have told us that so many fields yoga can be used and all the field is open for yoga research but you have to do quality research as Rakupra Bhakar has told you a large number of studies are being done at all Indian institute in yoga in various other specialties also especially non-comable diseases like ESO heart diseases high blood pressure is there diabetes is there uh bronchial asthma is there even constipation and irritable bowel all those studies are being done and I think the field is still open because it has a scientific basis. He says autonomic nervous system is altered by this and this is a great thing that's why people who fall down unconscious called voagal can improve patients who have arythmias those who are getting missing beats and they get much less and so on. So I think the field is open. Thank you very much for your large number of studies that you are doing. because of short of time I think we will not have any questions and uh our next speaker is again one of the leading researchers in yoga in the country Dr. Anand Bal Yogi Bhav Nani I know him for the last 40 years and I think he is one person who has done the largest number of research in the field of yoga and he is at present the director of institute of I don't know the celltogenesis and complimentary medicine and I think he's very unique because he has done the huge amount of research in the field of yoga and he's going to share some of his experiences with us. Dr. Thank you so much sir. I'm holding a hand mic because I'm going to be moving over there in a few moments. But before that I think it is very essential to remind ourselves that we are the descendants of the great vishes of this culture and Oh, [Music] with respects to the chair and the others. speakers and those eminent personalities in the audience today offline and online we are talking about non-communicable diseases and NCD we all know non-communicable disease but may I suggest another expansion of NCD it is a no commmunication disease we have stopped communicating with ourself because we are not communicating with ourself we have moved from ease is to disease from suka to duka and this is why whenever you do studies in yoga I will tell you something stress levels will always come down irrespective of your protocol because yoga as a lifestyle yoga as an integrated practice changes your perception of stress itself we have a scale called PSS perceived stress scale Every study will show it comes down because the moment you develop a yoga bhavana, you will look at life in a different way. The mole hill becomes a mountain when you are stressed. The mountain becomes a mole hill when you are destressed. And yoga is the best nonfarmacological method of stress reduction. All of us doctors we tell our patient please relax but we are always scared that the patient shouldn't ask us sir how to relax because modern medicine doesn't have non-farmacological methodologies of relaxation which is why the study in the end the cadet study that s was presenting shows yoga nidra has such an impact because the moment you learn selfdirected relaxation You have empowered yourself to move from duka to suka. Before we go forward, I would like to ask you all to stand up. That's why I have the hand hand mic. Please stand up for one moment. Sitting is the new smoking. Okay? And I'm just going to ask you to do something. Please bear with me. Okay? Yoga is about doing, not just talking. Let's start to shake our right hand. Can we shake our right hand? Right side. I want to check how many of you are aware of right and left. Can we shake our left hand? Sugo gi left hand. Right hand. Left hand. Now both hands as fast as possible. Fast fast fast fast. Now shake down. Down up to your right. Right. Right. I see see. Awareness. Yoga is awareness. Left, up, down, up. Now, as fast as possible, shake, shake, shake, shake, shake, shake, shake, shake. Catch all the ball. All your tension. Hold it tight. Taking a deep breath and throw it out. Now you can sit down. Immediately you feel better. All you all look so depressed. I thought you need to be sent to as to the psychiatry department for anti-depressant. Instead, what happened? You brought your body, your mind together with your breath. How do you link your body and mind? Anamaya kosha and manaya kosha. What lies in between pranamaya kosha. How do you access the pranamaya kosha? Pranayyama. The moment you move and you breathe and you do it mindfully, you have moved from duka to suka. The biggest issue behind all non-communicable diseases is stress. And it is not just the acute stress as all our doctors will say. Acute stress helps you save your life. It is the chronic stress with the cortisol overload that destroys every cell in your body. It doesn't matter whether it is your kidneys, your heart, your brain or your nervous system. So if you have that chronic stress, what do you need to do? You need to change your attitude. You cannot change the stressor. If you can change the stressor, please do so. If your stressor is your husband or wife, if your stressor is your job, if your stressor is your boss or your subordinate, then what do you do? You cannot change them. But what can you change? You can change your attitude towards them. And that is the last and final freedom. We have the power to choose the attitude towards whatever happens to us in life. You know, if you think of a forest, imagine there's a huge forest and it's filled with thorns. Either you can choose to spend your whole life taking one thorn after one thorn after one thorn documented with the double blind clinical trial if you want or you can choose to wear a nice pair of slippers and walk through the tons. Yoga is that beautiful pair of slippers that enables you to walk over that forest of thorns and get your karma worked out by fulfilling your dharma. And this is why the change of perspective rather than talking about me me all the time. Can it be from me? Put me e in shirasana. M becomes W. Me becomes we when you do shasa you have changed your perspective. The whole reptilian complex your brain stem is only working on survival. Abinvesha cla and yoga. You want to switch from this automatic breathing. S has talked about autonomic nervous system as being the prime pathology. Well, how do you change your autonomic nervous system? They say, "Oh, you cannot change it." You can change it by the way you breathe. The moment I switch from automatic breathing, which is brain stem governed to prefrontal cortex, choice-based breathing, I have changed my whole physiology. I've changed my whole psychology because I have decided I will breathe for six counts. I will breathe out for 12 counts. I will breathe through my right nostril or left nostril or through my mouth and out my nose or in my nose and out my The moment you make a choice, you have empowered your free frontal cortex. Let's all do this freeal cortex. Free frontal cortex. That is the power of choice. And the power of choice mind you is the superpower of being human. As a human being, we are endowed with the power of choice to choose how we look at life. And that is where stress which can be distress which is the problem when you change your attitude to the problem that distress becomes ustress. So the bad stress which is pathopenic moves into ustress which is celtogenic which is the name of my institute celtogenesis that focuses on wetness rather than illness. You move from the mei to the wei. You move from what in stress chronic stress we have alostostatic load. You move from the allostatic load and you come back to homeostatic balance. Now this is all sounding good. Let us do one more practice which will enable that to happen. Anxiety and stress are the major driving force behind all NCDs. Where are anxiety stored? Three place. This is the anxiety of performance. Can I perform well or not? This is the anxiety of relationship. This is the anxiety of the ego. I am the professor. I am the director. I am the president. I am the chief minister. Whatever it's up here. How do you address it? This stress you make a beautiful sound. Ha ha haha. Okay, we going to do it. Here you go. Ho ho ho ho. Up here. He he he he. Okay, we are going to do this through this nada. You change your perspective, your attitude and it is a ka. It is an active principle. Can we all again stand up again? Will you do that? Thank you. Now both hands I'm holding the mic with one hand so I'm doing it one both hands on your abdomen ha swami Ramdev was correct half of you are still in yoga nitra come out of sushti come to jagat haa haa ho ho ho ho ho [Music] Ho ho ho ho ho. He he he he he. [Music] Now remember this brain stem. Me. Both hands. Both hands. Me. [Music] and the prefrontal cortex buddhi me. [Music] And we now throw it all out. And we go go he he [Music] go. How do you feel now? Happy. Thank you so much for this wonderful opportunity. live yoga, be yoga and manifest the greatness of our beautiful culture. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you Dr. Bhavnani for telling us that stress is the main feature behind many diseases that we have and the practical tips that you told everybody. I'm sure they'll remember it. There are studies done by him which show that the it relieves stress also. Thank you very much. I think our two speakers have to leave at 1:30 and if there are any questions to Dr. Prabhakar or Dr. Goautam Sharma, anybody like to ask one or two questions because they have to leave they have to go somewhere else. Yes, one or two questions only. We don't have much time. Right. I in the current heart failure study we are looking at heart rate variability. I think Dr. Sharma has also looked at heart rate variability. We take your point that we will do qualitative research and it's important to understand the perspectives of people. Any other? Yeah, please. Hello. Uh sir, I have question about scope of research. One minute Dr. Goautam, which question? So are you talking to me as a cardiologist or as a researcher in yoga? No, no, no. I'm not discounting science but if you were asking me uh about the yoga techniques that you see. So slow breathing is really important and the other thing is uh meditation. These are the two mechanisms with which you can smoon out stress and your autonomic imbalance. Whether you do it by a simple technique like yogitra, that's up to you. But these are the two techniques that you should incorporate in your yoga practice daily. I I I think um what Dr. Sharma said is right. You do yoga for 10 minutes, but I think you need to do additional things and those additional things are that you need to be physically active. The recommendation is that you do half an hour of brisk walking at least 5 days a week and um you but now the recommendation is you can do it anytime you do it 10 minutes break it out into three or four parts 5 minutes 10 minutes whenever you get time you do that in addition you do some stretching exercises to increase your muscle tone and that's where the yogic asas will really work yoga doesn't is is considered calorie neutral it doesn't actually burn burn calories. It's neutral. But it's very important to increase the muscle tone. It'll decrease your insulin resistance. So you need to do that and you need to do the breathing exercises as well as yoga. I have also a cardiology that can head up here. I ask them to do yoga because heart disease is because of weakness of mind. I ask my patients why don't you exercise? Doctor I want get up in the morning. I want to go but mind says don't go today. You had a late night. So why mind is weak. I go to a party I know this is bad but my mind says take it today. So the moment I think they do yoga they become master of their own mind and they start taking care of diet exercise they stop smoking and then some exercises are needed as they said stretching and all that. So I tell them only 10 minutes do yoga especially breathing and meditation and once the mind becomes strong everything else becomes normal there. Everybody knows exercise is good but who does it? Everybody knows this junk food is bad but who controls it? So if you are the master of your mind, if your mind is strong, you will not get these diseases. I have a firm belief in this. I have been doing research myself. Okay. I think is there anything else sir? One last question. Yeah, last. Yeah. My question is with Dr. Drhbhakaram especially because he's representing the integrative medicine department and uh all other you can also respond because question is not about the research it is about the possibility of research in your institute by ordinary yoga therapist and yoga experts who may not have alopathic or ayurvedic background degree. So integrative departmental interdep departmental research by student of yoga who does not have alopathic or ayurvedic degree can they do some research project in your institute and can it be also uh made part of PhD projects or not thanks right our team is interdisciplinary and we believe in the philosophy philosophy of multi-disiplinary but I believe that people should have some background I mean not necessarily a medical graduate or not necessarily a graduate but some kind of understanding of the science behind everything maybe a 12th pass student in fact we are doing many trials across the country to improve care of hypertension care of diabetes using what is called as task shifting we use community health workers we also use patients and train them so once they receive the training they can actually participate but for PhD programs they need require the basic qualification they have to be masters without that you got to get a PhD. I think we thank both these speakers and they have to leave for some urgent work. I think now we move on to the other part and this is from United States. Now the international part you want a photograph. Okay, before you leave, let's give a big round of applause to our speakers. Show some love, guys. Thank you so much, sir. Just one minute. Momentum has to be to you. Every time you made me stand, I stood. We are felicitating our guests, our speakers with momento. [Music] Thank you so much sir for sharing the knowledge, the wisdom and letting us know about some good tips and practices from the world of yoga to save our heart. Doctors clearly easy how to take care of it with the help of yoga [Music] Medical science go alternative therapy lifestyle changes. Thank you so much sir. Now we have the international speakers and we are grateful to uh all the speakers who have joined us from United States. The time there is I think in the morning 3:00 or so. I'm grateful to uh all of them to join us take their time and uh I would like to invite Dr. Lorenzo Cohen from United States. He's uh the director of integrative medicine in United States. He's been very active in research. He has come to India many times. I have met him and he's one of those persons who is dedicated to research in various fields of uh uh medicine. So uh Dr. Cohen please am I audible? Yes I can see you. Lorenzo please start. Sorry for this odd time. You're not audible. Something has to be done with the mic. The voice is not coming. It's something at your end. Oh yes, I we can hear you now. Can you hear me now? Yeah, we can hear you very well. Loud and clear. Great. Thank you. Thank you. So, good afternoon everybody. Uh it is an honor to be welcomed uh to this wonderful day uh celebrating yoga both from a a scientific perspective and and from the cultural perspective. Uh I'm pleased that for me at the moment I am in central European time. So it is uh a beautiful sunny morning and I was able to get a full night's sleep uh which was nice. Um the the topic of of course non-communicable diseases is is so important in our world right now uh because most importantly we know how to prevent these diseases and we know how to prevent uh treat the majority of them uh effectively if we were to combine conventional medicine with lifestyle medicine and and of course that's where yoga comes in. Uh I'm going to share uh some slides. Um I'm not going to go into too much data because I know we don't have uh a lot of time uh today. But I'm going to talk specifically about yoga as a comprehensive way uh comprehensive way of life to reduce and control cancer. So MD Anderson is is one of the largest cancer centers in the world and I've been doing research there now for almost uh 30 years. I put together a lot of the research in and around uh lifestyle and cancer prevention and cancer control in this book called anti-cancer living that I wrote collaboration with my wife Allison Jeff who's well coach I believe this edition that you see pictured here on the top left of the smaller um images is the one that's is not the way but yoga is the way. Peace is the way which is paramount. Next guest of honor Shrimati Hansi Yogendra head yoga institute and president Indian yoga association situation we are really cancer is being diagnosed at really epidemic proportions in particular in younger and younger individuals. cancer actually has surpassed cardiovascular disease as the number one cause of death for individuals between 65 and 80. Um, and that number age group is going down and down. Here you see an example that is is most apparent in colarctal cancer where there's an increase in incidence in those under the age uh of 50 including an increase in mortality. Yet we see a decrease in age over 65. Now when we look at to the American Association for Cancer Research and other organizations uh espouse these same reasons. Oh here here's what this looks like over time, right? I mean it's it's literally unprecedented. And you could layer over this uh breast cancer, prostate cancer, pancreatic cancer, liver cancer, head and neck cancer. Um and the reasons are here. These are are body um in terms of unhealthy diet, excessive weight, alcohol consumption, sedentary behaviors, uh inappropriate use of antibiotics and the exposure. We at an individual have a harder time controlling uh of chemicals in the environment. Uh but one person in the United States most recently red dye food products we've known for decades cancer uh yet yet has been able to run a muck exposing us to uh these these substances. So more control is needed uh in terms of regulation. Uh and and this could go the same if we start looking at the food industry and and I heard a previous speaker talk about the three white evils that are not controlled within what we're exposed to in in terms of uh what we eat. Taking this a bit further. So there's a big focus on physical activity, diet, and the environment. But there's not a lot of talk often about important concepts like love and we know that management sleep. Secretary [Music] and taking into account not just uh movement and relaxation but how we interact with our world. Now, this was uh a study that was just published in the New England Journal of Medicine uh two weeks ago presented the American uh Association uh American Society of Clinical Oncology, ASCO, the largest um cancer organization in the world looking at the link between exercise and cancer outcomes. Most of the research to date has shown that people who exercise more who are more active during cancer treatment live longer. But those are epidemiological studies. It's much harder to do formal clinical trials. Well, this was a formal clinical trial over 800 colarctal cancer survivors who just participated actually in in relatively light exercise, a form of exercise that would be equivalent to um to doing a daily yoga practice. And here we see not only disease-free survival, that means how long you live without a recurrence of disease, but also overall survival. And these differences are are actually quite similar to what you would see in uh uh the benefits of conventional drug outcomes. So this is actually one of the first times ever that we've seen in a formal clinical trial uh the benefits of exercise on survival. This is a paper that we we published uh a few years ago in the journal science and there was a presentation at ASCO on an RCT um from from this same scientific u mechanism. uh but we were very interested in a large cohort of advanced melanoma patients to see what the influence was of diet and a particular constituent of diet which was fiber and the only way to get fiber of course is from the plant-based world. So the closer people are approximating a vegetarian diet which is of course the primary diet uh of of those in India uh we believe the better the health of the individual in particular cancer outcomes. All this data was actually recapitulated in um uh animal studies uh multiple animal studies across multiple labs in the United States and that's why we got to publish this in the highest impact journal science. What we see here is that the cancer patients who were eating the a a diet that was classified as a sufficient amount of fiber had much better survival probability and actually response to imunotherapy. And in fact, somewhat surprising to us, we found that those who had sufficient fiber but were taking an over-the-counter probiotic, it actually decreased the beneficial effects of that fiber diet. So the only way that individuals had improved survival is just consuming a higher fiber diet and not taking any kind of supplement. At this most recent ASCO just 10 days ago, Jennifer McUade, who was also part of the study, presented a formalized RCT feeding study. So patients for two months only ate the food that we gave them uh which was in one group a high-fiber diet or a uh not not low- fiber diet but just a a normal diet. Um those who had the higher fiber diet had a much higher probability of responding to imunotherapy. Now we're going to be tracking those uh patients over time. So what's important to know is that each of of the mix of six love and support, stress, sleep, diet, exercise, and exposure to environmental uh toxins influence key cancer hallmarks and it can do so in a in a unhealthy way or ideally we counteract these cancer hallmarks. These are the biological processes that are necessary to allow that mutated cell in our bodies to grow and thrive. And so we know that for example stress is imunosuppressive reducing the immune system which allows the cancer cells to avoid immune destruction. We know that chronic stress promotes inflammation. Cancer thrives in an inflammatory environment. We know that diet, as I just described to you, will modify the microbiome in the body and allow us to be more resistance to cancer growth. And the list goes on. Diet, exercise, and stress in particular influence all the cancer hallmarks. Sleep will influence a number of them, but not necessarily all of them. similar for love uh and support. So those three pillars which are key factors in a yogic lifestyle can be harnessed. Stress will literally get into the tumor micro environment and make it more hospitable to cancer. Can cancer growth again allowing the cancer cells to avoid immune destruction. There's an increase in inflammation. there's an increase in the vascularization of the tumor if people are experiencing chronic stress and of course we know how to counteract this at a behavioral level. We for years have been doing collaborative research with the viasa group outside of Bangalore clinical trials both in India as well as clinical trials at MD Anderson. I believe you're going to also be hearing shortly from Satir Kalsa uh and together with others we've now published a second edition of this book the principles and practice of yoga in healthc care which puts together all of the research in and around uh uh disease and and uh yoga studies for improving outcomes. The evidence base for for the benefits of yoga in cancer is so robust and and large that we actually needed to have uh two chapters uh one for yoga patients undergoing cancer treatment as well as one for uh yoga therapy for cancer survivors. Each of these chapters outlines in in uh detail all of the clinical trials that are put together to to support the recommendations. The Society for Oncology, which I helped to form over 20 years ago in collaboration with ASCO and also the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, developed guidelines for the use of integrative medicine uh in cancer care. And we recently published a paper in nature reviews cancer that put together all of these guidelines in and around the use of integrative modalities for treating cancer related symptoms that you see listed there on the left side. Pain, arthralgas, fatigue, anxiety, depression, sleep, nausea, cognitive dysfunction, hot flashes, night sweats. These are all common symptoms that cancer pain Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. reducing uh the incidence of cancer in the world but also all other non-communicable diseases. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you Dr. Lorenzo for sharing your huge experience on the role of yoga in cancer. You have really worked for a long long time. I know that you are in collaboration with the swasa also in Bangalore. And I think your point is very well taken that it should be a part of uh the usual therapy of all cancer patients. And uh I would agree with you if somebody follows the yogic lifestyle. You said high fiber diet, satic diet what we call could prevent heart disease. And uh I know people have died because of stress. You see the moment they here they have cancer they have so much of stress and many people have died of stress because of stress related arithmas as a heart patient and all. So I think your point is very well taken that it has a lot of role in the field of uh uh uh cancer. We are not routinely using it but it should be routinely used because not only in patients who are getting chemotherapy it's very useful but those in survivor also you have shown very good data that even survival may be better and all and most important is I think quality of life is much better of these cancer patients because they are so scared all the time so much of stress I deal with some of these patients as a clinician so I think your point is very well taken thank you very much for your sharing your huge data with Thank you. And you are in a good place now. I'm in Europe. I I'm glad I didn't disturb you at middle of the night. We were in United States to be difficult. Okay. Thank you. I think we move on move on to the next uh person who is another Dr. Sbir Singh Kalsa from United States. again uh he is a member of the faculty at the prestigious Harvard Medical School in Boston. Harvard Medical School is one of the best in the world and he has been as working there associate professor of medicine and also a researcher in Kundalini research foundation. I think he is one person who is devoted uh to uh uh uh the yoga research as far as the mental health is concerned. I think his work on mental health and yoga is outstanding and he has worked in so many other fields and all. He's been coming to India very frequently. I meet him very simple. He's himself a yogi and he's feeling a yogic lifestyle. So is his family and all and I think he's doing done tremendous work in the field of yoga research and he was the editor-in chief of the first book on yoga therapy that is principles and practice of uh I think uh uh yogi practices. The second edition is being edited by Lorenzo as you heard just now. I think anybody who wants to know about the scientific aspects of yoga must read this book principles and practices of yoga therapy which was written by him and now the second edition is there. So Dr. Satbir uh is going to share uh his large experience with us. Dr. Sbir please am I audible Sbir Singh? Yes, over to you Dr. Also slides are visible but hello sir are you able to listen to us? I don't think we have it's a very odd time in United States. If he's in US this is about I think 3:00 in the morning. Is he available the organizers please uh diet and weight management although most of my work in NCDS has been in mental health. I would like to start with um uh talking about uh the risk factors for NCDS and these are physical inactivity behaviors and what is not often recognized when these risk factors these modifiable risk factors that are described is the epidemic of chronic stress. Now three of these um risk factors physical inactivity, unhealthy diet and unhealthy behaviors um are behavioral factors um and we know that um those behavioral factors are high in in the world in the general population and this paper is one example showing NCD risk factors in India um in which we can see here 95 to 99% u of participants in this survey get less than five servings fruit and vegetables. Um there's high levels of physical inactivity and raised salt intake. All of which are risk factors for NCDS in general, but of course risk factors for weight management uh and obesity. And uh what we also know is that changing these behaviors is very difficult. So this is a paper that discussed this aspect of behavior change because if you want to change the underlying causes of a disease uh which is behavioral uh you need to change those behaviors. And yet this paper conclude concluded it that patterns of behavior change following diagnosis indicate that the vast majority of individuals diagnosed with a new chronic condition did not adopt healthier behaviors. And so this is from my yoga research colleagues who have also talked about this idea of lifestyle behavior change. Individuals generally recognize the need for behavior change but are still unable to change their behavior. Thus it is necessary to empower individuals to take an active role in self-regulating their health behaviors on an ongoing basis to improve health outcomes. Unfortunately in our modern medical system it's an acute care model. The focus is not on underlying cause but on symptoms. It's invested in pharmaceutical surgical and technological strategies rather than successful long-term behavioral interventions and prevention and health maintenance is not dominant. So as a consequence we are not successfully coping with these three behavioral risk factors. The chronic stress risk factor as I mentioned is a global sorry to interrupt you. We are not able to see your slides. Are they changing? Uh the slides we are not able to see. We can hear you very well if you can see that the slides changed there. We were not able to see your slides. It's not moving at all. Only the title first slide. Yeah, now it's better. Huh? Mhm. Sir, can you not stable? You can just disconnect and you can call back. Sorry, these are some technological problems. If you have to do a hybrid conference, these problems do occur sometimes. Your ma'am is there. She's on the call. Next will be ma'am. So sir, please. So now can we tell? Shall we tell? Okay. Okay. Please, please, please. Yeah. Yeah. Speaker meanwhile. Yeah. Ma'am is on the call. What is Well, I think uh till the time we get reconnected to him. I'd like to invite the last speaker Dr. Mu Singh. He's director of all Indian student of medical sciences at Rishik also interested. She's a pediatrician and she's going to talk talk about her experience of yoga maybe in the pediatric. Dr. Minus Dr. Commino singedated. joining. He's joining. She's also online. Okay. well before they join you see I can talk for little comments you see as you heard that non-communicable disease are increasing marketkedly and this is because of unhealthy lifestyle and yoga being a healthy lifestyle I have called it in eye publications as a lifestyle poly pill because yoga is a lifestyle in which you have diet control you know satic diet which is good for the heart for the cancer etc. It also physical exercise a part of it. Yoga is a uh many asans are equal to moderate exercise. Thirdly there is stress control. There's no other medicine which can really do that. And fourthly there is avoidance of tobacco and alcohol. These four factors if they can be controlled I think common noncomal disease can be controlled and yoga is ideally suited for that. So when I tell my patients do yoga, I tell them there are four components of yoga. Please do all these four. It's physical, mental, emotional and spiritual well-being is yoga. In physical component, everybody knows exercise, diet and no alcohol and tobacco. The uh mental part is Yes. Yes. Have you got Could you make it full screen and these slides if they can change? Dr. Sadir, am I audible? Yes, just one moment. Yeah, if you can make it full screen and then try to change the slides. Okay. Am I audible? And can you see my slide? Yeah, your first slide is seen. Can you change over to the next one, please? Okay. Okay. Shall I begin? Yeah, if you can change this slide. Slide is still the first slide is coming. We are not seeing any other slide. If you can go to the second or whatever then we know it's moving on the left hand side if you can. Okay. Yeah, I have changed slides. Have you do you see the second slide? It still doesn't change here. We see your slides on the left side of the screen but uh they're not changing. Uh perhaps I can just give my talk a sir please make it into full screen. Uh it is not at the full screen. Uh make your PowerPoint into full screen sir. Okay. Can you see the full screen now? Uh no not it sir. We are waiting actually your internet is not stable. This is this this may be the problem. Yes. Why? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So your because the connectivity is very why the screen is not showing or else it's I can perhaps just give my talk audibly without slides. Yeah sir. Because or if you want to give the message Yeah. You can give a summary of message rather presentation. We'll very keen to listen to you. We have disturbed you in the middle of the night. I hope please uh give us the message but yeah this is all right. Now we can see your slides. Everything is fine now. Risk factors we can now you can continue. I think it's all right. Slides are moving. Okay. All right. So risk factors are Yeah. dispatch controlling diabetes stress and we know that these first they are on viable high levels they are also high in India as you can see high levels of um we have low levels of vegetables high risk factors are high enough Um furthermore uh we know that Virginia is very difficult matter one of the best because of all of you but it was one of the Okay, please continue by my colleagues indicate individuals generally recognize but are still unable to necessary to empower you to play an active role in self-real knowing ongoing basis. uh and we know the acute care model is not succeeding. It's focused on symptom treatment rather than underlying causes investments in pharmaceutical, personal and technological strategies and behavioral interventions and it is not the other. It is also true in India of the survey conducted in India third of individuals have high levels of the daily stress and another third have moderate levels of daily stress. That's twothirds of the population indicating high levels of continuing stress. And we know from yoga research that yoga as it's practiced traditionally with its papa postures, breathing techniques, relaxation and meditation has improvements on many levels of psychophysiological functioning. It improves physical functioning uh in terms of fitness. It improves stress regulation particularly stress and emotion regulation. The meditative component is very effective in increasing mindbody awareness also known as mindfulness very important factor and we also now have growing research on the efficacy of yoga in increasing secular spirituality. Now these risk factors are a good these risk factors and the benefits of yoga match very well. So the fitness component of yoga can help address physical inactivity by giving individuals more confidence in their bodies and more ability to engage in physical activity. The self-regulation aspect particularly of stress and emotion regulation is very effective in managing chronic stress. The increase in mind body awareness and mindfulness through the meditative component of yoga practice is now known to be able to change these modifiable risk factors of physical inactivity, unhealthy diet and unhealthy behavior such as cigarette smoking um and alcohol consumption. And the aspect of spirituality also is helpful in managing this um world view this sense of materialistic goals in life and thereby also improving chronic stress. So in fact yoga is a very good fit for the risk factors for NCDS whereas modern medicine has not been doing very well in treating these NCDs. So coming to some of the research evidence, this is a survey study we conducted in long-term yoga practitioners and we found that um 97 uh the 46% of yoga practitioners have no medications use whatsoever. Uh and that is um that is much higher in in in non yoga practitioners. Furthermore, when we looked at at medication use, especially medications related to weight management for diabetes, cholesterol, and high triglycerides, non- yoga practitioners had much higher use of these medications um than did uh than did non- yoga practitioners. And a number of studies have really shown this relationship between um long-term yoga practice and health. This was a study that looked at weight uh in terms of those that were yoga practitioners, those that were doing physical activity and those that were in sedentary behavior. So in terms of normal weight, no surprise that the yoga and the physical activity individuals are more likely to have um uh normal weight. However, when you look at the individuals who are overweight, in fact, the yoga is much superior to both the physical activity and sedentary behavior, suggesting that yoga may be uniquely positioned to be able to address the risk factors for um weight gain and ultimately obesity. There are also now some growing uh number of tri prospective trials that are showing that yoga can increase um the positive aspects of these negative risk factors. So for example in this study they showed that a yoga intervention could increase intrinsic motivation for physical activity thereby addressing this negative risk factor of low uh sedentary behavior which contributes to um weight weight gain. Uh another recent study has shown that actually applying yoga uh to patients who are um have problems with eating and are under chronic stress um is showing efficacy. From this study, mindful yoga may promote intuitive eating and reduce internalized weight stigma among stressed adults with poor diet and suggests that changes in these factors may co-occur over time with poor diet and suggests that changes in these factors They