Namaskar. Today it's May 31st, 2026. Welcome to day 79 of Satic Yogi. Each year on March 14 begins my 100 days journey in returning to the essence of yoga towards the celebration of international day of yoga on June 21st. This year I chose to revisit Mahashi Patanjali's yog sutra and share my daily practices inspired by it. Welcome again to day 79 of satic yogi. Satwic yogi is a simple global way of living with clarity every day. Not by any not by ritual. It's not a performance or by aesthetics. It's simply by awareness. Today in yoga 2.28 that is 28th yog sutra from the second chapter sadhanapad. Maharashi Patanjali tells us that by consistent practice of the limbs of yoga the awareness the impurities are destroyed and it leads to awareness of wisdom and discriminative discernment. Let us try to understand. First let us recite the yog sutra and yog sutra 2.28 Do it says anushi ganip through the practice of the limbs of yoga. Impurities diminish and the light of knowledge arises leading to discriminative discernment. Now what does this mean? Yesterday in day 78 we learned that clarity unfolds in seven stages. Today Marshi Patanjali tells us how that clarity becomes possible and the answer is simple. Ashtang yog purifies the mind. Ashtang yog a purified mind reveals clarity. Let us try to understand yogra 28th from the second chapter sadhapad by breaking down word by word the yog sutra. Let's quickly recite the yog sutra yoga. So what does it mean? First let's break down the words yoga anushtan through the practice of the limbs of yoga. When impurities diminish, the light of knowledge shines leading to discriminative clarity. Which means when the limbs of yoga are practiced, impurities diminish and the light of knowledge culminating in discriminative clarity. Mhi Patanjali is describing the mechanism of transformation. One practice of the limbs of yoga. Here comes the most interesting part. The eight limbs of yoga. Yum. Nam asan pranayam pratya dharana dhan tamadhi. These are the eight limbs of yoga. Ashtang yog. And this is the heart of ashtang yog. Now second impurities diminish. First is we are learning the mechanism of transformation by consistently practicing the limbs of yoga. So one practice of the limbs of yoga. What are the limbs? The eight limbs of yoga. Ashtang yogan pranayam pratyahar dan dharana samadhi. Next comes the impurities diminish. Impurities are the mental disturbances. For example, restlessness, dullness, emotional storms, egoic reactions and habitual patterns. These are the mental disturbances. These can diminish by consistently practicing the limbs of yoga. Ashtang yogs of yoga. As practice deepens, these begin to dissolve. The impurities are destroyed. The mental disturbances for example restlessness, dullness, emotional storms, egoic reactions or habitual patterns diminish and then the light of knowledge arises. Not book knowledge, not intellectual knowledge. This is inner illumination. The mind becomes satic, clear, steady and which leads to discriminative clarity and this is vive. The ability the ability to distinguish what seer from the scene that is the purush the pure awareness from the scene procriti or the material world the ability to see distinct The distinct ability you can see the seer as the seer and seen as the scene. So the ability to distinguish the seer from the scene, self from nonself, eternal from temporary and awareness from mind. And this is the heart of yoga. the that leads to discriminative clarity the ability to distinguish. Okay. So let us cite the analogy from our daily life. Imagine a glass of muddy water. Just imagine a glass of muddy water. Muddy water. If you keep stirring it, what will happen? The water stays cloudy. Right? You have imagine you have a glass of muddy water. You keep stirring it. It stays cloudy. Nothing is visible. The mud never settles. But if you stop stirring, if you stop stirring the glass of muddy water, you stop stirring. The mud settles to the bottom. The water becomes clear and you can see through it. Ashtang yog is the stopping of the stirring. Stopping of the stirring. When the mind stops being agitated, stopping of the stirring. When the mind stops being agitated, impurities settle, clarity appears and insight shines. Insight shines the inner illumination. Not the book knowledge, not the intellectual knowledge, but the inner knowledge, the inner illumination. The water was always capable of being clear. It was only disturbed. And this is exactly what Maharashi Patanjali is teaching that yoga if someone tells you that okay practice yoga because yoga will create clarity. No yoga does not create clarity. Yoga reveals clarity. Purification is not punishment. Purification is preparation. When the mind becomes clear, the seer becomes visible. The purush, the pure awareness becomes visible. So what do we have for practice today? We choose one limb of yoga to emphasize. We are choosing just one limb. That's our practice to emphasize today. And we practice it with steadiness. And then om the gentle repetition of om. And then bhavna on purification contemplating on purification. So let us get started with sit and settle. I'll take off my glasses. Now we have been practicing when we say it and settle our breath. Remember to keep your back and spine straight and roll your shoulder to open up your chest. And you're looking at a point straight at the eye level and your chin slightly tucked in. Make sure you're sitting using your sitting bones, not on your tailbone. Now your back and spine is straight. Your chin is slightly tucked in. And now with a smile, we breathe in and out by placing just one hand gently over your navl. Nabi. Nabi is the Sanskrit for naval. And we breathe in the first two breaths. We breathe in. We just observe. We don't judge. We just observe our breath. Breathe in. Breathe out. Inhale. Inhale. Exhale. And now the next two with full awareness that you are present. You're seated. You have one hand gently over your navl. And as you breathe in, your naval area extends. And you breathe out. distance like a balloon with full awareness. Now you breathe in. Breathe out. Breathe in. Breathe out. And now we equalize our breath in two breath cycles. We count to two and equalize in inhale and exhale. Breathe in two. Breathe out two. Breathe in two. Breathe out two. And now the last in stillness practice of steadying our breath. We lengthen the exhalation by doubling the count from inhalation. If we count to two for inhalation, we count to four in exhalation. Let's do it in three breath cycle. Breathe in. Two. Breathe out. 2 3 4. Breathe in. Two. Breathe out. 2 3 4. Breathe in. Two. Breathe out. 2 3 4. And just stay like that and open your eyes. Now your breath is settled. Your body is steady and now you bring to mind one impurity that feels active today. Now it could be an irritation, dullness or craving or resistance or fear. So any one impurity that is active today any let me think what I um felt um craving craving so that's one impurity that I would bring to my mind to practice and yes craving craving. Now once you bring one impurity to mind to work on to practice, ask gently which limb of yoga can purify this. The limb, the eight limbs of yoga. Yum, nam, assan, pranayam, pratyahar, sadhana, dharana, dyan, samadhi. So which of these eight limbs can help purify this? and let the answer come on its own. So we pick just one limb of yoga and craving is comes into the category of um yum observance and nam. So it would come under observance that is yum. So if I can practice observance in controlling my craving, practicing to control just not to crave. Just the opposite, not crave. It's like stopping to stir to just not crave. So that limb of yoga can help. And now we gently gently as now I know I can practice just stop my mind from craving. which is direct. Stop. And now gentle repetition. We do it two times. Placing your hand cuz I want to stop the disturbance which is the impurity which is craving. I want to stop and I identified that observance or yum practicing yum can help me and which is just stopping it just no I won't do this as simple as that as direct as that so take a deep breath in and with exhalation take a deep breath in Take a deep breath in. And now as impurities fall away, clarity shines. So I chose to not crave for it and it it's it's a practice and I hold this feeling that I will not crave anymore for few breaths. and open your eyes. That completes our stillness practice. Day 79 challenge. Every day there's a challenge. You choose one limb of yoga today Ashtang Yog and practice it with sincerity. If it is a nam, if it is a yam or nam or asan which is yoga postures. If you select postures, if you select pranayam, the breathing, the breath, the breathing techniques, you select one and you practice it with sincerity. That's it. So day 79 teaches us that ashtang yog is the purifier of the mind. Ashtang yog is the purifier of the mind. When impurities diminish, the light of knowledge shines and discriminative clarity arises. So tomorrow we begin exploring the first limb of Ashang yog and how it purifies the foundations of life in Yog Sutra 29 that is 29th Yog Sutra from the Second chapter sadhanapad. We meet again tomorrow. Until then stay warm, stay open and most importantly stay honest to your own story. I thank you all for your presence on the 79th day of my 100 days of yoga practices in returning to the essence of yoga. Thank you.