Welcome friends to day one of our 30 days of yoga challenge. Our focus today will be setting our intention for our next 30 days together. Even as you're rolling out your mat here, getting your props, getting yourself nice and comfortable for our practice together, already be setting your intention for your time this morning. It's not an easy thing to set aside 30, 40 minutes for our self-care these days. Just getting onto our mat is a huge accomplishment. So, congratulations for getting here. We'll start today standing up at the top of the mat in Tadasana, mountain pose. Feet parallel, all 10 toes spread out. Then glue them down to the floor. Even the weight into the balls of the feet, the heels. You might sway your hips a little side to side. Then settle into a nice balanced, relaxed standing posture. Roll your shoulders back and down. Spin the palms forward. Stretch out your fingers. Stretch out the webbing between your fingers. And then see if you can stand a little taller like someone was lifting you up from the crown of the head. Find a slight lift from your sternum. collar bones broad and then begin to deepen your breath. Inhale for three, two, one. Exhale through your mouth. Three, 2, one. Do that again. Inhale. Draw fresh oxygen into the body, the brain. Exhale stale air out of the lungs. Breathe in a sense of coolness and calmness. Breathe out any residual tension, stress, worry. You might continue breathing in and out through your nose or slightly constrict the back of the throat with jay breathing. So you're producing that smooth breath sound to help focus your mind. And as you breathe here, visualize breathing your intention through your whole body for your practice this morning. Begin to draw your attention away from all the external distractions in life that pull us in a million different directions. And allow yourself to arrive fully present this morning in your practice. So your body is here, your breath is here, and your attention is here. On the next inhale, sweep your arms up. Take the gaze up. Reach back. Exhale, fold forward. Let your head hang heavy. Shake out your head a little. Yes. No. We'll take a few half sun salutations. Inhale halfway lift. Exhale fold forward. Breathe in. Come all the way up. Extend in mountain pose. Reach up. Exhale. Head to center. Palms to your heart. We'll do that a few more times. Move with your breath. Move with intention. Exhale. Fold forward. Breathe in halfway lift. Exhale. Let it go. Press through the feet. Rise all the way up to standing. Head to center. Palms to your heart. Do three more. Breathe in. Circle the arms wide. Exhale. Dive forward. Inhale. Halfway lift to a flattish back. Hinge from your hips. Reach for your toes. Completely relax your head and your neck here. Press down through all 10 toe pads. Rise up. Extended mountain pose. Exhale. Head to center. Palms to your heart. Two more. Use your full breath here. No rush. Breathe in. Reach up and back. Breathe out. Forward fold. Halfway lift. Press your shoulders back away from your ears. Crown of the head reaches forward. Release. Let it go. Inhale. Come all the way up. Head to center or palms to your heart. Last round. Deep breath in. Stretch your lungs, your rib cage. Circle the arms wide. Exhale. Fold forward. Let it go. Halfway lift. Hinge from your hips. Release. Let gravity do all the work here. stretching your back body. Inhale all the way up to standing. Head to center. Palms to your heart. Step your feet a little wider, almost as wide as your mat. Swing your arms side to side. A nice release here for your back, especially the lower back here. Let the arms just be relaxed. Let your legs, your feet be relaxed. Let your pelvis and your lower back be relaxed here. Letting go of any tension or tightness or stress being held in your lower back. Bring yourself back to center. Heel toe your feet about hipwidth distance. On your next inhale, take both arms up. Left hand catches that right wrist. Breathe in. Reach up through the right side of your body. Keep pressing firm through the outer edge of your right foot and side bend towards your left. So, just gently, gently pull with that left hand. Reach up out and over through the right arm. Press your hips a little more to the right. Bring your upper body down to the left a little more. Enjoy this nice side body stretch. And other side. Come back to center. Switch hands. Right hand catches the left wrist. Spin the left palm to the right. Take a deep breath in. Reach up. Up. Up. Exhale. Side bend to the right. So feel you're really lifting up and away from your pelvis. Lifting up and away from the waistline. An area where we tend to get a bit congested. heavy and stuck. Imagine your body like an accordion. The torso lengthening through that left side a little more. On the inhales, inflate your left lung a little more. Back to center. Interlace the fingers behind you. Straighten your arms. Hug your shoulders together. You might hold on to a belt or a towel there. and start to bend your knees. Keep the arms just as they are as you round forward. Let the weight of your arms roll up and over your head. Release tension from your upper back, your shoulders, your head, and your neck. Roll a little more weight forward to your toes. Bend your knees a lot almost so your chest can rest on the top of the thighs. And keep rolling the arms forward. Release halfway lift. Step your left foot back. Left knee down. Reach your right arm up. Easy twist to the right. Circle around your wrist. Circle around the whole hand. Stretch out your fingers, the webbing between your fingers. You might stretch out the whole arm. Make a few big circles. Then we'll keep that left knee down. Send the right leg straight back. You can come to the inner edge of the right foot. Modified side plank. Reach the right arm up. Stay here or float that right foot up. Maybe reach the hand back. Catch your foot, the ankle. Catch the pant leg. Start to hug that heel in. Slowly release. Keep that right leg lifted. Both hands down like you're coming towards your tabletop. Reach your left arm forward. Hold here and breathe for three. Kick a little stronger through the right heel. Breathe. Two. Pull your navl into your spine. Breathe. One. Release to your tabletop. Inhale. Cow pose. Arch your back. Exhale. Cat pose. Round in. Do that a couple more times. Inhale. Arch. Exhale. Round. Keep going. Tuck your toes under. Press up to your first down dog here. Hopefully this feels really good on your bodies. Stretch out your shoulders, your back, your legs. Pedal them out. Walk in place. Right, left, right, left. Lift and lower your heels. Give a little love to the arches of your feet and the knuckles of your toes. And other side. Step your left foot through. Right knee comes down. So you're back to the low lunge on the other side here. Right hand stays to the mat. Sweep your left arm up. Easy twist to the left. Circle around your wrist. Maybe circle the whole arm. Keeping that right knee down, we'll send the left leg all the way back. Come to the inner edge of that left foot. Ground your right hand right under your right shoulder. Sweep the left arm up. Modified side plank. Maybe lift the left leg. Maybe reach that left hand back. Catch your ankle. Lift your chest to the sky. Maybe lift your gaze and keep that left leg lifted. Bring both hands to the mat. Reach your right arm forward. Lift your chest up. Pull in through your core. Kick through the left heel. Breathe. Three. Breathe. Two. And one. Both hands, both knees down to the mat. Lower your chin, your chest, and then slide your torso forward. Lift up. Little baby cobra. Exhale, lower. We'll do that two more times. Inhale, lift up. Exhale, lower it down. Inhale, low cobra. Exhale, release. Press your hips all the way back to your heels. Child's pose. Bring your head, your heart closer to the earth. Soften through your shoulders, your neck, your back. Relax deep into your hip joints, your knees, your shins, tops of your feet, and your ankles. Keep your hips heavy on your heels. Slowly round all the way up. All the way up. So, find a comfortable seat here. You could always sit up on a block. You could sit up on your heels. And we'll start to walk the left fingertips out to the side. Sweep the right arm up and over. Stay here or wrap that right arm behind your back. Then gently roll your head out stretching your neck. Bring your chin down towards the right shoulder. Unwrap the arm. Come back to center. Other side. Walk your right hand out. Sweep that left arm up. Stay here or a little half bind. Left arm behind the back. You might bring your chin towards the right shoulder. Circle the head. So find what feels good in your body here. Find a deep release not just into your physical body but also your energetic body. release back to center. So, we'll take both arms out, palms face forward, make a fist. Just the thumbs stay extended. We'll rotate the whole arm kind of like you're leading with the thumb forward and back. So, not just the wrist, not just the forearm, but all the way from the upper armbbone. Rotate forward and back. And breathe. Breathe. Can you breathe a little deeper here, then hands down, start to walk your hands back, palms down all the way to the mat, fingertips face forward. Then see if you can lift your hips up a little bit more. Relax your head back. Gentle back bend. Keep pressing down through the tops of your feet and your shins. Hips up. Press down through your hands. Lift your chest up. Heart to the sky. Feel the physical opening the shoulders, the chest, and also that energetic opening around the heart space, the throat. Slowly release. Bring yourself all the way to seated on the mat. And we'll take the legs out wide to a big Vshape. Center toe points straight up. You might take the hands behind you. Press the floor away. Feel you're sitting nice and tall. Natural extension of your spine up. Both sitsbones, the base of the pelvis pressing down firm into the mat. So your pelvis is like your anchor here. Feel rooted, grounded down through those sitsbones, through the pelvic floor. So you might stay here active through your legs. Squeeze your thighs. Reach out through your heels. You might feel the heels lift up off the floor a little bit. If you're not feeling much, start to walk your hands forward. You might get the forearms all the way down. Those of you that are really comfortable, peace fingers, catch the big toes. Fold forehead and the heart closer to the earth. Notice anywhere in your body where you can release a little bit deeper. Maybe somewhere in the legs where you can find a little more space. Maybe somewhere in the hips, the lower back where you can find a little more space. Maybe somewhere around the collar bones or in between the shoulder blades. Start to walk the hands back in. If you folded forward, keep that right leg straight. Bend your left knee. Bring the sole of your foot to your inner thigh. Turn the whole body so you're facing that right foot. Inhale your arms up. Exhale. Fold out over your right leg. Januasana. Let the hands fall wherever they reach. Maybe your calf, your ankle. Some of you might be able to catch the toes. Let's pull equally with both arms. elbows down towards your calf muscle and the forehead towards your knee. Roll your left shoulder forward and down in line with the right. And then remind yourself of your intention for your practice this morning. Find a balance between effort and ease. And perhaps you deepen into the posture, not by force, not by pushing it, but by relaxing a little more, by finding more ease in your body, more ease in your breath. Walk the hands all the way back in. Switch sides. Left leg out. Right foot to that inner thigh. Turn to face your left foot. Inhale both of your arms up and exhale. Fold forward. Breathe here for five. Breathe. Four. Breathe. Three. Release tension from your lower back. Breathe two. Release stress from your body and mind. Breathe. One. Rise all the way back up. So, we'll keep that left leg straight. Bring your right knee into your chest. Setting up for a twist here. Step your right foot outside the left knee. Use your right hand behind you like a prop. Sit tall. Reach the left arm up. And as you reach up here, visualize bringing space in between each of your vertebrae. Then twist towards your right. Cradle that leg with the left arm. Or you might hook your elbow outside your knee. Start to turn your head towards the right. Bringing your chin a little closer to your shoulder. See if you can sit taller. Can you breathe a little deeper here? Give time for these postures to work on your body, the physical body and the energetic body. Bringing balance, harmony, and ease back to our whole system. Slowly unravel that twist. Walk the hands off to the left. Release the lower back a little bit here. Sometimes I like these counter twists even more. Back to center. Right leg out. Hug your left knee in. Step that foot outside. Left hand behind you. Feel the sitsbones grounded to the floor. Reach up through the crown of the head. Reach the right arm up. Twist to your left. From the very center of the chest, the sternum, keep rotating to the left. Feel the whole rib cage rotate to the left. Maybe turn your head. Bring your chin to your left shoulder. Breathe. Breathe. Unravel back to center. Little counter twist off to the right. Back to center. Stretch out your legs. Come all the way down onto your back. Final back bend here. Walk your feet in. Maybe you touch those little ankle bones. Feet about hipwidth distance. Press down through the feet. Lift your hips up. Press down through the back of the arms. Lift your chest up. Try and tuck your shoulders under a little more. Wiggle your shoulder blades a little closer. Press through your big toes, the balls of the feet. Lift your hips up. Lift your chest up. Exhale. Lift over and slowly lower down. Draw both knees into your chest. Rock right, left. Roll all the way to the side. and press yourself up to seated. Find any comfortable seat here. You might be sitting up on a bolster or a block. Most important is you find a nice tall spine so you can breathe with ease. Relax your hands on the tops of your legs. Give yourself time to settle in. Continue to sit calmly and comfortably. Let your posture and your breath be as effortless as possible here. Let go of any ideas of what your yoga practice has to be, what it needs to look like, how you're supposed to feel or not feel. Recall your intention for showing up on your mat today. Fill your whole body and mind with that intention. Let there be a single point of focus. And let that intention, whatever it was, be enough for today. Let your practice be enough for today. Let everything you've done or haven't done be enough just for today. Feel the body becoming more relaxed. Your breathing becomes more relaxed. Your attention, your awareness more relaxed. Nothing you have to do here but be. And you already are. So really is nothing to do. You can continue to sit just as you are or bring your hands into your heart. Anjeli mudra simple gesture of gratitude even with everything going on in our personal lives, everything going on in the world. So important to express gratitude internally and externally when you can each day. gratitude. Not saying that everything in the world is perfect, but even with all the chaos, acknowledging the abundance in our lives, our effort and our dedication to our well-being, showing up on our mat this morning, moving our bodies in the medicine of this practice, and showing up for yourself, carving out a little bit of time for your self-care. There we'll seal our practice with three ohms. Oh. Oh. Oh. Om. Shanti Shanti Shanti. Om. Peace. Peace. Peace. See you next time.