India is officially stepping onto the mat as the countdown begins to one of the world's biggest wellness movements. The Ministry of Aush is marketing the 100 day countdown to the International Day of Yoga 2026 with a special yoga day countdown which will be held at Vijay Vigan Bhavan in New Delhi on Friday. The Maji Desai National Institute of Yoga Center is hosting the event which signals the start of a nationwide preparations for the 12th edition of the global celebration of yoga. The program will bring together yoga gurus, health experts, policy makers and enthusiasts from across the country. It will be attended by Union Minister of State for Aayush Prattab Prao Jadav, Aayush Secretary Vya Rajesh Kotcha and noted yoga expert HR Nagendra among other dignitaries. The countdown campaign will see 100 organization promoting yoga in 100 cities and locations across India expanding awareness and encouraging more people to make yoga part of their daily lives. The global observance of international yoga day will be celebrated every year on June 21 tracing its origins to a landmark proposal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that was adapted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2014. Since then, the day had grown into a worldwide movement highlighting yoga as a path to physical health, mental balance, and holistic well-being. This year, the Ministry of AOSH is planning celebration at 100 iconic location across the country, building momentum in the leadup to June 21. As the countdown begins, the message is clear. Yoga is not just a practice, but a shared global journey towards healthier living. India is officially stepping onto the mat as the countdown begins to one of the world's biggest wellness movements. The Ministry of Aush is marketing the 100 day countdown to the International Day of Yoga 2026 with a special yoga day countdown which will be held at Vijay Vigan Bhavan in New Delhi on Friday. The Muraji Desai National Institute of Yoga Center is hosting the event which signals the start of a nationwide preparations for the 12th edition of the global celebration of yoga. The program will bring together yoga gurus, health experts, policy makers and enthusiasts from across the country. It will be attended by Union Minister of State for Aayush Prattab Prao Jadav, Aayush Secretary Vya Rajesh Kotcha and noted yoga expert HR Nagendra among other dignitaries. The countdown campaign will see 100 organization promoting yoga in 100 cities and locations across India, expanding awareness and encouraging more people to make yoga part of their daily lives. The global observance of international yoga day will be celebrated every year on June 21, tracing its origins to a landmark proposal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that was adapted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2014. Since then, the day had grown into a worldwide movement highlighting yoga as a path to physical health, mental balance, and holistic well-being. This year, the Ministry of AOSH is planning celebration at 100 iconic location across the country, building momentum in the leadup to June 21. As the countdown begins, the message is clear. Yoga is not just a practice, but a shared global journey towards healthier living.