Namaskar. Welcome to the day two of my 
yoga practices of 100 days towards the   celebration of international day 
of yoga on the 21st of June 2026 March 15th and these practices are based on 
Maharshi Patanjali's yog sutra and Today we   practice the second sutra from the first 
chapter. The second yoga sutra which is   yogi nod yogiti nod. Now this is a u this 
is just one word yogiti nod. Once again I   welcome you all to my yoga practices of 
100 days of towards the celebration of   international day of yoga. But today we 
explore one of the most important sutras   in the entire yoga tradition. A sutra 
that defines the very purpose of yoga. So this sutra yoga sutra the second yog 
sutra is made of couple of words yoga yoga chitt viti nir. So these are the four words that   it is made of and I'll break 
it down to for you one by one. Yoga Patan Mahershi Patanjali defines yoga as the 
the stillness of the mind, the control of the mind   um of the fluctuations or the modifications of 
the mind. By nature we all know that mind is the   restless one and it is can that be controlled. 
So I'll just give an analogy of mind lake. So   here it is mind is like the lake and the ripples 
on the lake which are produced or influenced by   external inputs are the viti. So if if the ripples 
are in still there are no ripples then there is   a possibility that we can see the bottom of the 
lake very clearly. Just like how when the mind is   stilled that we can take a look within ourselves 
and realize our true self. Yogi nod. Yog is the   union. The base word is yuj and which means the 
union. Chit is the mind realm. The mind state   which is jumping around like a monkey from here 
to there and chit viti viti are the modifications   the fluctuations of the mind and due to which 
we are our looking at the world may be in nod.   NRod is the stilling the act of bringing about 
and end the slinging. So on day two of my yoga   um practices of 100 days towards the celebration 
of um international day of yoga. So I would   definitely um have you practice with me something 
that I called something that I call attunement. So here we go that we take 
breath how you would do it your normal breaths. Breathe in and release. Breathe in and release and release. Now this is what Maharshi Patanjali 
meant by saying that the stilling of the mind's   stilling the stillness bringing about the mind 
mind stillness um bringing about that is is yoga   that is what yoga is and Maharashi Patanjali as 
he compiles um the yog sutra it is not that we   stop thinking We we do not stop thinking. It's 
it's the sessation. It is how with continuous   practice we bring about an end so that we can 
still our mind. we can bring our mind to stillness and as I said the vitis are the waves the the 
stories the reactions um which of course are   part of uh being human being and in today's world 
where our attention is constantly scattered this   sutra the second sutra of the samadhip 
the first chapter is much more relevant   than ever. So here what we are going to do today's 
practice is very simple and I will have you go   through something called I call it attunement. 
We will learn to watch our mind without without   responding to it without reacting without um 
um judging. So it is like I always give this   example. So if you I traveled when I was little 
I traveled across India and would travel by train   and I used to enjoy watching the outside from 
the window of the train like this. I would sit   um our journey used to be longer hours and 
I would just watch how the landscape I'm not   doing anything and just one after the other 
the landscape changes and it just comes and   then leaves just comes and leaves. So these the 
coming and the leaving again the coming and the   leaving is the vitis that we are talking about 
and I'm not judging oh the I see a mangrove oh   my gosh what what happened is there too much of 
dryness no I'm not I'm just watching just like an   observer I'm watching so I used to do this when 
I was little and um as I teach yoga and whenever   we go through the attunement practice that is 
the I find this example to be one of the best   example that I can present that um if you're by 
the river or a or a lake you are sitting by the   lake and you see the leaves floating just floating 
one after the other there's a tree and the leaves   are falling and you're just watching you're just 
watching you're No reaction, not judging. Oh,   that leaf is broken or so you're just watching. So 
just watching. So we will do that in a practice.   So let's do this. I would like you to sit 
com comfortably and let your breath settle. Normal breathing. Inhale from your nostrils and exhale. Now you keep doing this for some time. Now as you keep doing it now as you continue doing it now you imagine sitting by that lake or sitting   by the window seat of the train and 
looking outside into the outer world and on the lake as the leaves float one 
after the other. No judging, no reacting,   just observing and in the train one after the 
others the scene changes one after the other   and these are the thoughts. We are not stopping 
them. We are not pushing them away. Let it come.   But also let it pass. One thought comes, let 
it pass. The next thought comes, let it pass.   And now how you would bring about stillness. Now 
bring all your focus towards your naval region.   Bring all your focus to your naval 
region and observe how you're breathing. And just observe the movements of your belly area,   your navl with each breath 
in the breath cycle. Inhale, exhale, inhale, exhale. And now we move on to the next step 
which is samariti. Some of equalizing your   breath that we learned yesterday, March 14th. 
We equalize our breath. We take counts. We can   count to three or four and then equalize 
by exhaling the same number of counts. So,   let's do it three times. I'll do it for three 
counts. 1,00 1 1,002 1,003 Exhaling 2 3 Inhale   2 3 exhale 2 3 inhale 2 3 exhale Hale 2 3 and 
now just stay in this moment. You have created   this moment for yourself. You have been able to 
not have or be in the state of thoughtlessness.   And you just did by practicing to focus on 
your breath. You've been able to return to   yourself. Now bring your palms closer in 
front of your chest and rub your palms and just cup your eyes. And in the darkness, you may blink fast and few times. And 
just gently sliding down your cheeks, your throat with a smile on your face, your chest,   your arms, your belly area, your back. 
Shows some love to yourself. your legs and bring your hands back in front 
of your chest with a smile on your   face. You may bow down or just open your eyes and I thank you for your time. That brings 
us to the completion of day two practice of by achieving stillness of the mind by controlling 
the fluctuations or the modifications of the mind.   Thank you for showing up once again today 
in my practices of yoga of 100 days in the   celebration of international day of yoga day 
two. I thank you all. Thank you for your time.