International Day of Yoga is the celebration of India's gift to the world and that is yoga. Observed every year on the 21st of June, this day celebrates the holistic benefits of yoga on our physical, mental and spiritual well-being. Hello and welcome to Dishias. My name is Saloni Nankuly and today we will see why this day is in news. What is the international day of yoga? We will learn a little bit about yoga, the history of yoga and also look at a practice question for prelims. So why is this day in news? Because today is 21st of June and every year on this day we celebrate the international day of yoga worldwide. And why do you think this day was selected? So 21st of June is the longest day of the year. It's the summer solstice and this is something that's known as dakshinyan which means that our sun starts with its southward journey. So during this time of the year people are engaged in spiritual activities in religious activities connecting with their inner self. So that is one of the reasons that 21st of June specifically was selected to be celebrated as the international day of yoga. And the theme for this year is yoga for one earth, one health. And when did all this start? So India is the motherland of yoga. India is where yoga originated from. And the idea to celebrate the international day of yoga was also a brainchild of India. So India gave this idea during the 69th session of the United Nations General Assembly which was held in 2014 and the very same year in 2015 we hosted the first international yoga day celebrations at Rajput in New Delhi and we created two Guiney's world records because this was world's largest yoga session 35,985 people from 84 nationalities participated in this event and because it was celebrated created on such a large scale on such a a grand scale this created two Guiney's world records. Now if you understand what yoga is so yoga does not deal only with the physical fitness of the body. It takes care of your physical, mental, emotional, spiritual well-being and it talks about the union of atma with brah. So the word yoga is derived from the Sanskrit word yuch which means to join or unite and this symbolizes the union of body and consciousness and that is celebrated across the world in various forms because of the advanced benefits that this has and if you look at the history of yoga so yoga is not something that originated in the modern times. It dates back to the ancient times. It dates back to the Harapan Valley civilization 2700 B.CE See we have something which is known as the pashupati seal and this pashupati or the lord of animals is sitting in a yogic posture which is known as mulband assan. So because Pashupati is sitting is believed to be sitting in this yogic posture. We anticipate we speculate that this goes back like yoga goes back to the Harapan Valley civilization and even post Harapan Valley during the Vic times the word yoga was first mentioned in ancient Sanskrit text of Rigveda and it also finds mention inveha you don't have the word yoga mentioned but it talks about the importance of controlling the breath. So rig aur they also talk about it but we cannot exactly pinpoint the exact timeline of this because veeddas are a porche they are not written by humans they were spread by the word of mouth so we cannot pinpoint to the exact era but we find mention in the rigid and atarvid also post the vic era we have pre-classical era which was predominated by opanishads so we have 108ishetts and out of the 108 openish 20 are yogicets. So yogits they deal with the different types of yoga asan pranayam and sadha dhan samadhi things of that sort. So there are 20 yoga opishetss in total and this tells us how important yog has been since ancient times. Post this even in the classical period we see that yoga grew from Hinduism and it entered into Buddhism and Janism. So in Buddhism it was introduced by Goautam Buddha and in Janism intro it was introduced by Lord Mahavir. After Buddhism in Janism we see that Maharishi Patanjali who is considered to be the father of yoga. The yoga is one of the six classical schools of philosophy. So Maharishi Patanjali founded the yog school of philosophy and this he introduced something which is known as Raja yoga. Raja yoga or ashtang yoga. So what do we mean by raja yoga? Just like a king has complete control over his kingdom in raja yoga we focus on selfmastery. We focus on controlling our inner self, our inner emotions through meditation. So raja yoga was introduced by Maharishi Patanjali and ashtanga or also known as eight limbs. It talks about the eight limbs of yoga like pranayam, sadhana, samadhi, nyam, yam all these things it is talked about in the in the ashtang yoga. Then in the postclass period this is the time of bti movement. We see adishankarachara madhavachara ramanujachara miraabai and purand das they are also practicing yogic traditions. So yoga was never lost. It was always there. It has been there since the time immemorial since Harapan civilization then during Vic times also then in Buddhism Janism also and then during Bhi tradition also we see yoga being present in the Indian civilization. Post this in the modern period Swami Viveanand is considered to be one of the most modern yogis who focused on yoga as a manner of being physically strong. And after Maharashi Viveanand we have Ramana Maharashi Ram Krishna Paramhand BK Syaba Joyce a lot of people who practiced yogic tradition. So yoga has always been there and it is just growing and evolving as the time passes by. Now because yoga has been so engraved in the Indian culture in the Indian civilization there have been a couple of initiatives that India has taken in this regard because India wants to establish itself as a global leader in yoga. So it has done some things like the ministry of Aayush in its common yoga protocol has listed yum nam asan all these things are the limbs of ashtang yoga which was introduced by Patanjali Maharshi among the popular yoga sadhas. Then the beauty and wellness sector skill council has also introduced vocational education courses in yoga for CBSC schools. So we are also focusing on encouraging students schoolgoing students to practice yoga for their physical and mental wellness. Then under the pradhan mantri koshal vikat yojna where we focus on skill training vocational training we have identified 96,196 candidates to be trained as yoga instructors and trainers through the various skill development initiatives and yoga is also a part of the fit India movement which was a campaign that started in 2019 to encourage our youth to feel motivated about yoga to incorporate yoga into their daily lives for a fitter health. So fit India movement also talks about it. So these are some things that India is doing to incorporate yoga into the lifestyle of all our people because we see that a lot of lifestyle related disorders are growing in our youth and even in the children who are schoolgoing. So to take care of all these things, yoga is a very good alternative. Yoga is a very good solution. If we incorporate this into our daily lives, we will be able to lead a bitter life. So that was all for today's video. Let us see if you can answer this question for prelims. Consider the following statements. The United Nations passed a resolution in December 2014 declaring June 21 as the International Day of Yoga. Second, the word yoga is derived from Sanskrit and means to unite or join. Which of the above statements is or are correct? A only one, B only two, C both one and two, D neither one nor two. Please provide your answers in the comment section. And until we meet the next time, please keep studying and keep revising. For more informative content, like, share and subscribe and do not forget to press the bell icon to get the notifications.