Good morning one and all. We welcome you all to the international yoga day on the second day of yoga sa and international yoga day 2025 international celebrations. And as part of International Yoga Day celebrations, we are having four sessions on 21st and 22nd together. Yesterday 21st we had morning session at 6:00 a.m. and evening session at 6 p.m. And today we'll be having two sessions morning session at 6:00 a.m. and evening session at 6 p.m. So total we have four sessions respectively organized at 6 a.m. in the morning and 6:00 p.m. in the evening for the two days for the convenience of all. So that whichever time one is comfortable they can join and practice yoga. So we welcome you all once again to this international day of yoga celebrations and also yoga sa which is a signature event organized as part of international day of yoga 2025. As we all know that international day of yoga is celebrated on 21st of June every year. So this year also we are commemorating and celebrating yoga day and as part of the process Sri Holistic Health Foundation India and Sri Research Institute Center for Arts Sciences and also all the collaborators We invite you and welcome you all to this international yoga day and yoga sa celebrations. As part of this we are going to perform international day of yoga protocol common yoga protocol as to enable everyone to be comfortable we are going to present the common yoga protocol. And we all can follow the presentation and do at our comfort of our home. So make yourself comfortable wherever you are. Whether you are lying on bed or in a chair or on the floor, make sure you have enough space around. Make sure you are at calm, serene place or wherever you are, make yourself comfortable to begin the journey ofasas together with us. So with this instructions we request everyone and also inform your friends, colleagues, relatives, whoever is to join in this wonderful program. There is no eligibility criteria as such. Everyone is equally eligible to be part of it and there is no charges as well. And as a token of appreciation, everyone is provided with a certificate of participation. And for presenters, if you would like to make presentations, you are welcome to make any presentations in the evening session. Today is today we are going to close uh the celebrations of international yoga day and yoga sa today evening at 6:00 with the same joining link. So if anyone is interested to make any presentation, share their observations, you are welcome to join and share. So now we shall begin our common yoga protocol with the blessings of almighty. So for avoiding any inconvenience all the participants mic and video will be switched off so that we can follow the instructions and presentations and perform asa from wherever we are. So we thank each and everyone for joining us and welcome you all once again and let's take the blessings of almighty as part of international webinar series on holistic health wellbeing and sustainable development which is organized by Sri Holistic Health Foundation India and Sri Research Institute Center for Art Sciences and well-being which organizes this series of international conferences, seminars, symposiums, workshops, webinars which all are free with the same joining link every day from 6 to 6 p.m. onwards. generally 6 to 8:00 p.m. Sometimes it can be extended, sometimes it can be reduced so as to accommodate the number of commemorations and presentations and the entire platform is free for registration, participation, presentations, collaborations. So we invite all the stakeholders partners to join with us and this is the only unique kind of celebrations a daily celebrations which is completely free but with strict discipline commitment and dedication. We have been organizing regularly. So you all are part of this wonderful opportunity, wonderful occasion which is a lifetime memory for everyone and we all are fortunate to be this world's largest celebrations. Not everyone is fortunate to be part of such a initiative where the volunteers come together and organize. You know if you want if you have if someone is giving you sponsoring you and if you are provided with all resources then definitely one would do it for the sake of you know funds or for the sake of name and all but here this platform is entirely different. We do not take any donations or sponsorships from anyone even a single pies even from individuals private or public. So this platform is a unique platform where professionals, bureaucrats from different walks of life, scientists, doctors all we all are volunteers of this platform. And on this platform we all have a single agenda or a motive or a vision or a mission to share our knowledge, give back to society. So in the 24 hours we have we can spend at least daily half an hour to some extent or at least maximum of three hours is which we have thought and initiated these daily series of programs and events which are internationally organized and we have people from across the world joining us. Sometimes it may be less or more but the journey continues irrespective of the number. So with this let's take the blessings of almighty Harch. [Music] With the blessings of Almighty, now we shall continue with permanog. We request everyone to stay calm, relaxed and watch this presentation and follow the instructions and perform yoga as per the instructions and after this presentation we'll be sharing the feedback form by which you can share your data for e certificates and also mark your attendance. So we request everyone to fill the registration form if you have not filled that is only available in zoom platform in the form of polls and also feedback form will be shared at the end of the session after this common yoga protocol. So you can fill both the registration form and feedback form to mark your attendance to be eligible for the certificate. So thank you once again everyone. Let's begin our journey for the union of our body, mind and soul for the overall health and wellbeing of not just us within us outsiders and also with nature and environment. [Music] Namaskar. Antar raki global spirit celebration. Yogi yoga. Yog. Coron yoga for for yoga. Say Yogast. Yasari Mat yoga. for karma. Say yogas barfield. Feel supat. [Music] Inhale serenity. Exhale stress. Reach out to flexibility. Leave behind chronic pains. Shut out the world. Tune in to your inner being. Don't work out only for your body. Work out for your mind, body, and spiritual well-being. Add yog. Add life to your lifestyle. While addressing the 69th session of United Nations General Assembly on September 27th, 2014, the honorable prime minister of India Shri Narendra Modi urged the world community to adopt an international day of yog [Music] which are karma. Fore [Music] mortal sagat. [Music] [Music] [Music] Due to the government of India concerted efforts, 21st June was established. lished as the International Day of Yog in 2014 supported by a record consensus of 177 co-sponsoring countries in 193 member United Nations General Assembly. In its resolution, the United Nations General Assembly recognized that yog offers a holistic approach to health and well-being while promoting harmony in all aspects of life. This recognition highlighted the need for wider dissemination of information about the benefits of practicing yog in India. It ushered in an era of holistic health, a revolution based on the principles that prioritize prevention over cure. The ministry of Aayush successfully organized the first international day of yog on 21st June 2015 at Rajput New Delhi where two Guinness World Records were made. One for the largest yog session involving around 36,000 participants and the other for maximum number of nationalities with participants from 84 countries in a single yog session. Over the years, the celebration of International Day of Yog has gained momentum worldwide with new enthusiasts taking up this ancient form of well-being year by year. In the year 2016 when the second international day of yog was celebrated in Chundigar another record was created that with largest number of people with disabilities perform yog protocol together more than 51,000 yog enthusiasts participated in the third international day of yog celebrations at luckno in the year 2017. Yog is essentially a spiritual discipline based on an extremely subtle science which focuses on bringing harmony between mind and body. Yog is a practice that combines art with science to provide a guide for a healthy lifestyle. Nowadays all the sections of the society participate and practice yog throughout the year. Yog has now become a mass movement. The International Day of Yog or IDY celebrations began 100 days before ID. Many yog programs are being organized across the globe to mark the celebrations as a public event in these 100 days. Various events like yog at heritage sites, iconic places, guardian ring, ocean ring, yogic to antarctic, yog saga mala, yog bharat mala and similar events like these have wider dimensions to ideiy celebrations. The combined efforts and involvement of all stakeholders along with collective approach of the government have made this possible. The practice of common yoke protocol on IDY has become one of the biggest public health practice and initiative which has been adopted by more than 300 million people across the globe. According to its Sanskrit root yuj, the word yog means to join or to unite. And the practice of yog is said to lead to the union of an individual consciousness with the universal consciousness. Yog is widely regarded as an immortal cultural outcome of the Indas Saraswati Valley civilization dating back to 2,700 BC. Although yog was practiced during the prevadic period, it was Maharishi Patanjali who systematized and codified the practices through yog sutras for his invaluable contribution to this field of knowledge. He is known as the father of classic yo. Later many masters contributed to the preservation and development of yo by documenting the practices and spreading them worldwide. Today, millions of people across the globe are benefiting from the practice of yog. Recent medical research has shown that regular practice of yog offers a variety of physical and mental benefits working on different levels of an individual such as body, energy, mind and emotion. Each system of yoke we practice falls within these categories. These have been further adopted and developed by different schools of yog namely Gan Yog, Bhakti Yog, KM Yog, Patanjal Yog, Huti Yog, Kundalini Yog, Dian Yog, Mantra Yog, Lei Yog, Raj Yog, Jane Yog, Bod Yog, etc. Some of the widely practiced yog sadhan are yam, nam, asan, pranayam, pratyahar, dharana, dyan, samadhi, bund, mudra, shatgar, yuktahar, mantra, yuktagarma. A yog practitioner should follow the guiding principles of yogic practices before the practices. Yogiic practices should be performed in a calm and quiet atmosphere with relaxed body and mind. It should be done on an empty stomach or light stomach. Consume a small amount of honey in lukewarm water if you feel weak. Light and comfortable cotton clothes are preferred to facilitate easy movements of the body. In case of chronic diseases or pains or cardiac problems, a physician or yog expert should be consulted prior to performing yogic practices. During the practices, practice sessions should start with a prayer or invocation as it creates a conducive environment to relax the mind. Yogic practices should be performed slowly in a relaxed manner with awareness of the body and breath. Do not hold the breath unless it is specially mentioned to do so. Do not hold the body tightly or jerk the body. Perform the practices according to your own capacity. End the session with deep silence or shanti part. After the practices, food and bath should be taken only 20 to 30 minutes after the practice. Once prepared, step into the world of yog with mindfulness and avail the benefits of this centuries old wisdom. [Music] Let us enter into the world of yog invocation. [Music] Oh, [Laughter] [Music] Oh [Music] sh [Music] my John [Music] [Music] sana Sana. [Music] [Music] Let's start yoga with yogic sukcha viram or loosening practices to increase micro circulation. Neck movements forward and backward neck bending. Caution avoid this practice in case of severe cervical spondilitis. [Music] Start with alert posture samastiti. Stand with feet 2 to 3 in apart. Keep the hands straight beside the body. Now keep the hands on the waist. While exhaling, move the head forward slowly and try to touch the chest with the chin. As you inhale, bring the head to the center position. While exhaling, move the head backward comfortably. Bring the head to the center position. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Right and left neck bending. Caution. Do not overstrain during this practice. While exhaling, bend the head slowly to the right and bring the ear as close as possible to the shoulder without raising it. Experience stretching on the left side. As you inhale, bring the head to the center position. While exhaling, bend the head slowly to the left side. Experience stretching on the right side. Inhale and bring the head to the center position. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Right and left neck twisting. Caution. Do not jerk the neck. Keep the head upright. While exhaling, gently turn the head to the right so that the chin is in line with the shoulder. As you inhale, bring the head to the center position. While exhaling, gently turn the head to the left. Feel or experience stretching on the right side. Inhale and bring the head to the center position. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Neck rotation. Caution. People with neck pain and cervical spondylosis do this practice carefully. Exhale. Bend the head forward trying to touch the chest with the chin. Inhale slowly. Rotate the head clockwise in a circular motion and exhale while coming down. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Then rotate the head in an anticlockwise direction. Inhale. Go back. Exhale and come down. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Inhale and bring your head to the center position. Exhale. Bring the arms down and relax. Shoulder movements. Shoulders and arms movement. Caution. Frozen shoulder patients should do this practice carefully. Start with alert posture samastiti. Stand with feet 2 to 3 in apart. Place the hands by the sides. Keep the fingers together pointing downwards. While inhaling, move both the arms from the sides up above the head with the palms facing outward. Exhale and bring them down. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Shoulder rotation. Stand straight. Inhale and raise both the arms up to the shoulder level by the sides. Bend the arms at the elbows. Place the fingers on the respective shoulders. Try to touch the elbows in front of the chest and then rotate both the elbows and shoulders in a circular manner. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Inhale while raising the arms and exhale as you bring them down. Repeat the same in a reverse manner for two times. Inhale while raising the arms and exhale as you bring them down. Now inhale and stretch the elbows by the sides. Exhale. Bring the arms down and relax. Trunk movement. Trunk twisting. Caution in case of vertebral disorders do this practice under guidance. Start from the alert posture. Stand with feet about 1 ft apart. Raise arms to the chest level facing each other and keep them parallel. While exhaling, twist the body towards the right side so that the left palm is close to the right shoulder. Come back as you inhale. While exhaling, rotate the trunk and spine towards the left side. Come back with inhalation. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. [Music] Slowly bring the arms and feet back together. As you exhale, relax. Knee movement. Caution. In case of arthritis and obesity, do this practice carefully. Start in an alert posture. Then keep the feet one foot apart. Inhale. Move the arms up the shoulder level from the front with palms facing downwards. Exhale. Bend the knees and bring down your body to the half squatting position. In the final position, both the arms and thighs should remain parallel to the ground. Come back as you inhale. This is one round. Repeat for one more round. Come back with inhalation. Slowly return the arms as you exhale and bring the feet together. Relax. Let's now move towards yogasan, [Music] standing postures. Tarasan, the palm tree posture. Caution, avoid lifting heels in case of arthritis, varicose vein or vertigo. Alert posture. Stand with feet two to three in apart. Place hands by the sides. Inhale. Lift the arms to the shoulder level from the front and interlock the fingers. Exhale. Turn the palm outwards. Now inhale and stretch the arms over your head. Raise the heels off the floor and balance on the toes. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Bring the heels down. Release the interlock of the fingers. Exhale. Bring the arms down by the sides and come back to the starting position. Relax. Vikasan the three posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of arthritis, vertigo or obesity. Stand in alert posture and focus on a point in front. Exhale. Move the right leg up and place the foot on the inner side of the left thigh. The heel should be in contact with the perennium. Inhale. Extend the arms up and join the palms together in namaskar mudra. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Bring the arms down. Release the right leg and bring it to the starting position. Repeat on the other side. Exhale. Move the left leg up and place the foot on the inner side of the right thigh. The heel should be in contact with the perennium. Inhale and extend the arms up. Bringing the palms together in namaskar mudra. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Bring the arms down. Release the left leg and bring it to the starting position. Relax. Pad hastasan or the hands to the feet posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of cardiac spinal disorders or glaucoma. Assume standing position with feet 2 in apart. Inhale slowly. Raise the arms upward from the front and stretch up the body from the waist. Exhale and bend forward at the level of the hip joint until both the palms rest on the ground. [Music] Stretch the back to make it as straight as possible. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Slowly inhale and come up to the upright position while stretching the arms above the head. Exhale slowly. Bring down the arms and return to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Arda chakrasan or the half wheel posture. Caution. Avoid this posture in case of vertigo or cardiac problems. Stand with feet 2 in apart. Support the back at the sides of the waist with fingers. Try to keep the elbows parallel to each other. Inhale. Drop the head backwards while stretching the front side of the neck. As you exhale, bend backward from the lumbar region. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale and slowly come up. Exhale and return to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Trionasan, the triangle posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of slip disc, sciatica or after abdominal surgery. Assume the alert posture and step the feet 3 ft apart. Inhale and raise both the arms from the sides up to the shoulder level with palm facing outwards. Turn the right foot towards the right side. Exhale slowly. Bend to the right side and place the right hand just behind the right foot. Turn your head and gaze at the tip of the left middle finger. The left arm is straight in line with the right arm. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale slowly. Come up. [Music] and bring the right foot back. Repeat on the other side. Turn the left foot towards the left side. Exhale. Slowly bend to the side and place the left hand just behind the left foot. Turn your head and gaze at the tip of the right middle finger. The right arm is straight in line with the left arm. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale slowly come up [Music] and bring left foot back. Exhale bring the arms down and feet together. Come to the starting position and relax. Badrasan the firm posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of severe arthritis or sciatica. Start with visasan. Support the back with hands. Body should be relaxed in a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front. Keep the hands beside the hips and palms resting on the floor. This is dandasan. Now bring the soles of the feet together. Exhale. Clasp the toes with the hands. Inhale. Put your heels as close as possible to the perennium region. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Release the hands and stretch out the legs in the front. Support the back with hands. Relax. Vajrasan the diamond posture. Caution. Those who are suffering from knee pain or ankle injury should avoid this practice. Start with long sitting posture. Sit straight with legs stretched out in the front. Palms resting on the ground, fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place both the feet in such a way so that the big toes touch each other. Position of the buttocks is in the space between the heels and the feet. Keep hands on your respective knees or thighs. Keep the back straight. Gaze in front or close the eyes. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. When returning to the starting point, bend a little towards the right side to take out your leg and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Arda rasan the half camel posture. Caution in case of hernia, abdominal injuries, arthritis or vertigo. Please avoid doing this asan. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front and palms resting on the ground with fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on the respective knees. Stand on your knees. Place the hands on your back with fingers pointing downwards. Keep the elbows parallel. Inhale. Bend the head back and stretch the neck. Exhale. Bend the trunk backwards as much as possible. Keep the thigh perpendicular to the ground. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Come back to kneeling position. Exhale. Sit in vajrasan. Bend a little towards the right side to take out your left leg and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Ostrasan the camel posture. Caution those suffering from hernia should not practice this asan. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with legs stretched out in the front. Palms resting on the ground and fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on respective knees and stand on your knees. Now bring the knees and feet a few inches apart. While inhaling, bend backwards without jerking the neck. Exhale. Place the right palm on right heel and left palm on left heel. Weight of the body should be evenly supported by the arms and legs. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale, come back to kneeling position. Exhale, sit in vajrasan. Bend a little towards the right side to take the left leg out and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Shashakasan the hair posture. Caution. Avoid this posture in case of osteoarthritis of the knees. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front, palms resting on the ground and fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on respective knees. Inhale. Spread both the knees wide apart. Place the palms between the knees. Exhale. Bend forward with arms outstretched and place the chin on the ground. Keep the arms parallel. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Come up [Music] and close the knees together. Bend a little towards the right side to take the left leg out and extend it. Similarly, extend your right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Utan mandukasan. The stretched up frog posture. Caution. Patients with osteoarthritis of the knees should avoid kneeling position. Start with a long sitting posture. Sit straight with the legs stretched out in the front, palms resting on the ground and fingers pointing forward. This is dandasan. Fold the right leg at the knee and place the foot under the right buttock. Similarly, fold the left leg and place the left foot under the left buttock. Place the hands on respective knees. Spread the knees wide apart. Inhale. Slowly raise the arms upward from the front. Exhale. Fold them from the elbow and place the palms on alternate shoulder blades. Right palm on left shoulder blade and left palm on right shoulder blade. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Now inhale and raise the arms up. Exhale bring the arms down and close the knees together. Bend a little towards the right side to take the left leg out and extend it. Similarly extend the right leg and return to the starting position. Relax. Vakrasan the seated twist posture. Caution avoid this posture in case of acute back pain or spinal disorders. Start with long sitting posture. Sit with the back straight and leg stretched out in front. Bend the right leg and place the right foot beside the left knee. Place the right palm beside the body. Bring the left arm around the right knee and place the palm beside the right foot. Inhale. Stretch the back. Exhale. Turn the body and head to the right. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale and come back. We will now repeat the same on the left side. Bend the left leg and place the left foot beside the right knee. Place the left palm beside the body. Bring the right arm around the left knee and place the palm beside the left foot. Inhale. Stretch the back. Exhale. Twist the head and body to the left. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Come back to the starting position. Relax. [Music] Prune postures. Makrasen. The crocodile posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of pregnancy and frozen shoulder. Start with vajrasan. Slowly lie down on the stomach with feet together and toes pointing outwards. Place the chin on the ground. Stretch your arms forward. Open the feet apart with toes pointing sideways. Bend your elbows and rest the chin on the hands. Lift the head up and place your cheek on the hands. Close the eyes and allow the entire body to relax. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Remain aware of the body and breathing. Bjangasan the cobra posture. Caution those suffering with hernia or stomach ulcers should not practice this asan. Start with macakarasan. Now join the legs. Stretch your arms forward and rest the chin on the ground. Now place your palms beside the chest and elbows close to the body. Inhale slowly and lift the head and chest up to the naval region with the help of spinal muscles. Keep the elbows parallel. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Bring the head down and rest your chin on the ground. Relax in macarasan. Shalhasan the locust posture. Caution. Patients with severe lower back pain, peptic ulcer, hernia or cardiac should avoid this posture. Start with macakarasan. Now join the legs and place both hands beside the body, palms facing downwards. Inhale and lift both the legs off the floor without bending the knees. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale and bring the legs down to the floor. Relax in macarasan. Supine postures. Su bandasan. The bridge posture. Caution. If you have stomach ulcers or hernia, it is not recommended to practice this asan. Lie down on the ground. Stretch out your legs comfortably and place the palms facing downwards. Bend both the legs at the knees and bring the heels near the buttocks while holding both the ankles as per your convenience. Inhale slowly raise your buttocks and trunk up as much as you can to form a bridge and maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale. Slowly bring your hips down and straighten the legs in supine position. Relax. Utan padasan. The raised leg posture. Caution. Individuals with hypertension should practice this by alternating between legs. Lie comfortably on the ground with legs stretched out. Hands placed by the sides and palms facing down. While inhaling, slowly raise both legs without bending them at the knees until you are able to see the tips of toes. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale slowly. Bring both legs down and place them on the ground. Relax. Arda halasan. The half plow posture. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of abdominal injuries, hernia or lumbosacral pains. Lie comfortably on the ground with legs stretched out. Keep hands placed by the side and palms facing down. Inhale slowly raise both the legs without bending them at the knees and bring them vertical to the ground. The body from hip to shoulder should be kept straight. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Exhale slowly. Bring the legs down to the ground without lifting the head. Relax. Pavan mktasan. the wind-freeing posture. Caution, avoid this practice in case of abdominal injuries, hernia, sciatica, or severe back pain. Lie comfortably on the ground with legs stretched out, hands placed by the sides and palms facing downwards. Bend both the knees. Exhale, bring the knees towards the chest. Inhale. Interlock the fingers and clasp the shin below knees. Exhale. Raise the head up until the chin or nose touches the knees. Maintain the final position for three to five breaths with body awareness. Inhale. Bring the head back to the ground. Exhale. Release the legs back to the floor. Lie down in supine position. [Music] Relax. [Music] Shavasan, the corpse posture. Lie down on the ground. Open the feet apart with toes pointing sideways and palms facing upwards. Close your eyes. Consciously relax the whole body. Become aware of the natural flow of breath. It will tend to become slow. Remain in the position until you feel refreshed and relaxed. [Music] While coming back, slowly stretch your arm over the head and join the feet. Then turn by the side either right or left and come back to the sitting position with the support of the hands. [Music] Kapal bhi. Caution. Avoid this practice in case of cardiac conditions, epilepsy, hernia, gastric ulcer or during menstrual cycle. Sit in any comfortable position. Keep the spine and head straight with eyes closed. Place the hands on the knees in ghan mudra. Inhale deeply through both the nostrils till you start to experience fullness in the pelvic region and expansion in the chest. Expel the breath with forceful contractions of the lower abdominal muscles and let the inhalation be passive. Let us begin the first round of kapal bhhati with 20 strokes. [Music] Exhale deeply and relax. This is one round of kapal bhhati. Repeat two more rounds with 20 strokes each. [Music] Nari shodhan praarayam the alternate nostril breathing start with sitting in any comfortable posture. Breath should be slow, steady and controlled. Keep spine and head straight with the eyes closed. Relax the body with few deep breaths. Keep the left palm on the left knee in gan mudra and the right hand should be in pranayam mudra with the middle and the index fingers folded like this. Close the right nostril with the right thumb and exhale completely. Now inhale through the left nostril. Recognize the touch of air moving through your body as pra. Then close the left nostril with the ring and little finger of the right hand and exhale through the right nostril. Now inhale through the right nostril. Close the right nostril with the thumb and exhale through the left nostril. This is one round of nari shodhan praayam. Repeat it for four more rounds. Shittali pranayam. Caution. People suffering from cuff, cold or tonsillitis should avoid the practice of this pranayam. Sit in any comfortable posture. Keep the spine and head straight with eyes closed. Place the hands on the knees in ghan mudra. Roll up the tongue and shape it as a tube. Inhale maximum air through the tongue. Take the tongue inside the mouth and close the mouth. Then slowly exhale through the nostrils. This is one round of pranayam. Repeat it for four rounds. [Music] Brahi pranayam. Sit in any comfortable posture. [Music] Keep the spine and head straight with eyes closed. Place the hands on the knees in gan mudra and inhale deeply through the nose. Exhale slowly making a deep humming sound. [Laughter] Repeat one more round. [Music] Practice the brahri pranayam with shmuki mudra. Using your index fingers, gently close your eyes. Then place your middle finger beside your nose without fully covering it. Place your ring finger on your upper lip and your pinky finger on your lower lip. Finally, rest your thumbs on your ears as demonstrated in the video. Inhale deeply through the nose. Exhale slowly making a deep humming sound. [Laughter] [Music] Repeat one more round. Dan, sit in any comfortable position. Place the hands on the knees in gan mudra. Close your eyes. Now adopt dhan mudra [Music] and sit in a slightly upturned phase. You need not concentrate. Just maintain a mild focus between the eyebrows and be conscious of your breath. Let them flow freely. Just observe the flow. If impossible, let the thoughts dissolve. [Music] [Music] [Laughter] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Now time for us to take salp. I commit myself to remain in a balanced state of mind all the time. It is in this state that my development reaches its greatest possibility. I commit to do my duty to the self, family, at work, to society and to the world for the promotion of peace, health and harmony. Yoga practice would end with shanti part or the universal prayer for everyone's peace and prosperity. again. [Music] SH [Music] [Music] [Music] cash [Music] dab. [Music] Oo shanty shanty shanty. [Music] [Music] Hope you all are relaxed. Enjoyed the asas and common yoga protocol which have been practiced performed for wellbe of not only us but for the well-being of all nature and environ. So let us continue this practice every day wherever it is possible in whatever way we can and we appreciate each and everyone for being part of this international yoga day celebrations and yoga sang celebrations 2025. We request everyone to fill up the feedback form which has been raised in the form of polls to mark your attendance before leaving this platform. Now we have come to an end of this morning session. So the final session of the 2 days international day of yoga celebrations and yoga sangum celebrations will be taking place today at 6 p.m. So we request everyone to join us and invite your friends, colleagues, relatives and so on and make it a grand success the closing ceremony by being part of it. We'll also take a group photo which will be also shared as a report to the media and also to the ministry as part of celebrations. So we request everyone to join as today for the closing ceremony at 6 p.m. onwards and keep your videos on for the photo session and we'll also have the common yoga protocol as usual in every session and every session will be provided a certificate. So whichever sessions you are attending you will be provided with certificate as a token of gratitude. And those who are attending YouTube on YouTube we request everyone to attend on Zoom if Zoom is full then you can prefer YouTube. So the guidelines are provided how to mark your attendance if you are attending on YouTube. There is a little bit more lengthier procedure if attending on YouTube. So we request everyone to join in zoom session and those who are not able to join through zoom can join via YouTube and complete the procedure. So we thank each and everyone for joining us and you will be receiving an email within a week's time to download your certificate of participation. The basic criteria is to participate or present by registering and providing feedback. So these three steps are mandatory to get certificate. First is to register yourself for the event in Zoom platform to be part of it officially and then participate or present or both and then provide your valuable feedback on this session. So these three things are very much essential mandatory for everyone and those who have missed can also watch on YouTube. Those who are not able to attend live can also send a recorded video of performing common yoga protocol at your own convenient time within today's evening or today's night. you can send along with your details to our email id mentioned. So we'll consider that as well for the e certificate. So we request everyone once again to fill the feedback form which is only accessible in zoom and for further details you can check the website link in a week's time after verifying your registration participation or presentation and feedback certificates will be generated. So kindly fill all the details correctly. Do not leave any of the details because anyway we are spending so much time on practicing yoga. Few more minutes will also make it more memorable with the record of participation. Together let's make this celebration even more memorable. and being part of this world's largest celebration of daily commemorations and celebrations. So with this we express our gratitude to each and everyone and let's join for the closing ceremony at 6 p.m. today for this two days international day of yoga. We see you all at 6 p.m. with the same joining link. Take care. Have a great day and have a great weekend. The session will be open for 5 minutes for the participants to fill the feedback form. So we request all the participants to quickly attend to the feedback form and complete it before leaving the platform. See you all. today evening. Take care. Good night. Sorry. Have a great day.