[Music] Nearly five lakh people participating in a synchronized mass yoga demonstration in Vishaka Patnham with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself leading the charge. Officials have designated 326 sections, each hosting about a thousand participants with a fleet of over 3,000 buses mobilized to bring yoga practitioners to the site. The grand spectacle is aiming for multiple record setting feats, including one recognized by the Guiney's World Records. Security has also been ramped up with 10,000 police personnel, 1,200 CCTV cameras and drone surveillance to ensure safety and precision. Chief Minister N Chandra Unaidu said that the state is planning to introduce yoga in the school curriculum from class 9th onwards and even establish a a deemed yoga university. Scenes of yoga harmony are emerging from across the country. At Pangong Sho Lake in Ladak, ITB soldiers from the 24th battalion performed yoga against the pristine Himalayan backdrop at high altitude border outposts like Dhan Singh, Tapa and Charts. In Vishakapatnam and along Tamil Naru's coast, Indian Coast Guard personnel and families joined in yoga from sea to shore with the ICG ship Shya leading yoga at sea and Rani Abbaka embracing the discipline on sacred shores. Half a world away, Time Square in New York transformed into a yoga arena as 9,000 participants pulled out rolled out mats under the summer sun for solstice in Time Square. mind over madness yoga. We came up with this idea of let's just see if we can bring yoga in times square to help everybody feel good. It was a pretty volatile time then in terms of politics and all of that still the same. And we thought that by bringing yoga in time square it would help people to uh feel better. Meanwhile in Mongolia during the multinational military exercise Khan Quest the Indian army led a rejuvenating session with troops from around the world. First practiced by Hindu sages yoga has now become one of the one of India's most prominent cultural exports. In 2014, Prime Minister Modi successfully lobbyed the United Nations to declare 21st of June as International Yoga Day. Since then, the day has become a celebration of physical vitality, mental clarity, and spiritual harmony. This year's theme, yoga for one earth, one health, resonates louder than ever as yoga continues to unite communities, nations, and minds. All right, for more on this we're joined live by special correspondent Idrris Sloan from Shinagar. Idris, thank you so much for joining us. Of course, it is International Yoga Day. Idris, tell us what the mood is like right now. Well, absolutely celebrations are on across the world and in Jammu and Kashmir as well. We standing in Kaga area of La Chok which has a lot of political uh relevance. Uh the Baratya Jantaa party for the first time ever has organized the yoga day celebrations here in front of the clock tower in large rock area of Sinagar. We also know that the uh defense minister of India Rajnath Singh is visiting Jammu and Kashmir today. He is attending the yoga day celebrations in Udampur district with the defense forces across Jammu and Kashmir in various uh districts. There are celebrations being held at multiple locations. As you can see, not only the Bart Jantaa party leaders but students also are present here uh to celebrate the day. We've seen in the past few years especially the student community showing a lot of interest in uh yoga uh they a lot of them saying that it's the uh way of living and that's what we are seeing on the ground also the number of people every year uh actually taking up yoga has increased in Jammu and Kashmir in the past few years and today for the first time ever these celebrations are being held in Sinagar's Lal Chalk area. Security does remain one of the major concerns for the security agencies and we see a three- tier security system also in place uh while the yoga celebrations are on at various locations in Sinagar as well where most of the political leaders are attending the functions. Uh right Idris I wanted to also ask you if you've perhaps been able to speak to the people who are attending what is their view about this? Well, a lot of excitement especially as we said uh among the student communities uh they've they're right out here early morning uh in every district of the Jammu in Kashmir whether it's Sinagar whether it's the Jammu city as you can see not only students men everybody uh being a part of these celebrations in Sinagar for the first time we are seeing these celebrations being held in Sinagar's Lchuk area which also holds a lot of political uh relevance and on the other hand we are seeing as you see in your visuals a lot of women have come out uh in huge numbers not only in Sinagar but in different areas. Sinagar is also hosting a lot of these celebrations in SKICC where the main government function is happening while as the part Jantaa party decided that they would do it at Lwok where people from every nook and corner can come and attend and we are seeing a lot of locals here who have come to attend the function. The students are uh basically before the school starts they are here as well and they are also a part of these celebrations and so a lot of excitement among the people across Jammu and Kashmir as well. Right. All right. Well, thank you so much for bringing us the latest on this. [Music]