A very good evening everybody. I'm Dr. Mahesh Sharvin, chairman of the Prya Foundation. Welcome you all for today's talk of the week pragya prayer. Today's talk is on yoga for one earth, one health. This happens to be the theme of today's international day of yoga celebration. Accordingly, we have considered this theme. We have taken this topic for the talk. Let's start today's session with the prayer. [Music] [Music] Hallelujah. [Music] Somebody. [Music] Someone [Music] [Music] sana. Nana sana [Music] pose. [Music] [Music] To begin with, I wish you all happy International Day of yoga celebration. A very happy and successful celebration for this year 2025. Yoga is an invaluable gift of ancient Indian tradition. It embodies unity of mind and body, thought and action, restraint and fulfillment, harmony between man and nature, and a holistic approach to health and well-being. Being yoga is not about exercise but to discover the sense of oneness with ourselves, the world and nature. By changing our lifestyle and creating consciousness, it can help us to deal with the climate change. As you all are aware on December 11, 2014, the 193 member UNGA approved the proposal by consensus with a record of 177 co-sponsoring countries a resolution to establish 21st June as international day of yoga. In its resolution, the UNGA recognized that yoga provides a holistic information about the benefits of practicing yoga for the health of the world population. Yoga also brings harmony in all walks of life and thus is known as disease prevention, health promotion and management of many lifestyle related disorders. If anybody asks what is yoga, yoga is essentially a spiritual discipline based on an extremely subtle science which focuses on bringing harmony between mind and body. It's an art and science for healthy living. The word yoga is derived from the Sanskrit root yuj meaning to join to unite. According to yogic scriptures, the practice of yoga leads to the union of individual consciousness with universal consciousness. According to modern scientists, everything in the universe is just a manifestation of the same quantum firmament. One who experiences this oneness of existence is said to be in yoga. And the individual can be termed as an yogi who has attained the state of freedom referred to as mti, nirvana, kywalia or moka. Yoga also refers to an inner science comprising of a variety of methods through which human beings can achieve union between the body and mind to attain selfreization. The aim of yoga practice is to overcome all kinds of sufferings that lead to a sense of freedom in every walk of life with holistic health, happiness and harmony. If we look into uh the history or the development of yoga, the science of yoga has its origin thousands of years ago. Yoga is widely considered as an immortal cultural outcome of the Indis Saraspati Valley civilization dating back to 2,700 BC and has proven itself to cater to both material and spiritual uplift of humanity. The presence of yoga is also available in folk traditions, Vic and Upanishad heritage, Buddhist and Jane traditions, Danas, epics of Bahabarata including Bhagavat Gita and Ramayana. Though yoga was being practiced in the pre-wdic period, the great sage Maharshi Patanjali systematized and codified the then existing yogic practices, its meaning and its related knowledge through Patanjali yoga sutras. Yoga has spread all over the world by the teachings of eminent yoga masters from ancient times to present date. Today everybody has conviction about yoga practices towards the prevention of disease, maintenance and promotion of health. Millions and millions of people across the globe have benefited by the practice of yoga. And the practice of yoga is blossoming and growing more vibrant with each passing day. The fundamentals of yoga is as follows. Yoga works on the level of one's body, mind, emotion and energy. This has given rise to four broad classifications of yoga. Karma yoga where we utilize the body Ghana yoga where we utilize the mind. Bi yoga where we utilize the emotions and kria yoga where we utilize the energy. Every individual is a unique combination of these four factors. Only a guru, a teacher can advocate the appropriate combination of the four fundamental paths. Gurushisha parumparas of yoga led to the emergence of different traditional schools. These include ghana yoga, bi yoga, karma yoga, patanjali yoga, kundalini yoga, hata yoga, dana yoga, mantra yoga, lia yoga, raja yoga, jane yoga, buddhi yoga and so on. Each school has its own approach and practices that lead to the ultimate aim and objectives of yoga. The widely practiced yoga sadas are yama, nyama, asana, pranayyama, pratyahhara, dharana, dana, samadhi, bandhas and mudras, shhat karmmas, yuktahara, mantra japa, yuk with the karma etc. Yamas are restraints and nyamas are observances. These are considered to be the prerequisites for further yogic practices. asas capable of bringing about stability of body and mind. Pranayama consists of developing awareness of one's breathing followed by willful regulation of respiration as the functional or vital basis of one's existence. It helps in developing awareness of one's mind and helps to establish control over the mind. Pratyahhara indicates dissociation of one's consciousness from the sense organs. That is withdrawal method. which connect with the external objects. Dharana indicates broadbased field of attention that is inside body and mind. Dana is contemplation that is focused attention inside the body and mind. and samadhi it's integration or liberation. How yoga can help? Yoga is essentially a path to liberation from all bondage. However, medical research in recent years have uncovered many physical and mental benefits that yoga offers. I saw a a a small sampling of research shows that yoga is bene beneficial for physical fitness, muscularkeeletal functioning and cardiovascular health. It is beneficial in the management of diabetes, respiratory disorders, hypertension, hypotension and many lifestyle related disorders. Yoga helps to reduce depression, fatigue, anxiety disorders and stress. Yoga regulates many partial symptoms. In essence, yoga is a process of creating a body and mind that are stepping stones, not hurdles to an exuberant and fulfilling life. [Music] This year we are celebrating the international day of yoga with the theme one earth one health. Aligning yoga with sustainability and global well-being. This year is the 11th anniversary of global celebration. June 21st represents a symbolic harmony between nature and human wellness and is important in many cultures. The theme yoga for one earth, one health echoes a vital truth about the interconnectedness of health, sustainability and the environment aligning with India's one Earth, one family, one future, which is the vision highlighted during its G20 presidency. Over the past decades, International Day of Yoga has evolved into a transformative force encouraging holistic health, mindfulness, and harmony across cultures and communities. The International Day of Yoga 2025 is not just a one-day observance. It reflects India's enduring commitment to holistic health, environmental harmony and global well-being. With yoga for one earth, one health as its gratitude principle, India continues to lead the world in connecting physical fitness with mindful living. So let's all make a salpa on this apicious day which we do at the end of yoga practice session. Join me in making this salpa. I commit to make myself into a healthy, peaceful, joyful and loving human being. Through every action of mine, I will strive to create a peaceful and loving atmosphere around me. I strive to break the limitations of who I am right now and include the entire world as my own. I recognize the kinship of my own life with every other life. I recognize the unity of all there is. Finally, Shanti mantra. Om shanty shanty shanty [Music] locust. So bhavan locust. [Music] Shant. Thank you very much.