as a general practitioner in Morningington Peninsula area. First of all, I would like to thank our guru G to give us the opportunity to come here and spend time for our own health. I'm going to talk about mental health. First of all, I'll be giving you some statistical figures. Numbers are usually boring unless we talk about money. But these numbers are going to open your eyes. About 40% Australians suffer or experience mental health disorder at least at some stage in their life. And about 20% Australians in a study in 2023 had mental health disorder in the last 12 months. One in seven children suffer with mental health disorder. If we go a little bit further and we look into genders, females suffer mental health more than males. So about one in four females suffer with a mental health disorder and about one in five males suffer with a mental health disorder in Australia. If we talk about self harm and suicide, out of all the hospital admissions with the self harm, about 65% are females. And if we talk about suicide, about 3,000 suicides are happening every year in Australia, which means about eight every day. Which means by the time we start this yoga session and by the time we end this yoga session, at least two people would die by suicide in Australia. This is eyeopener and unfortunately about 75% of these suicides are males. So what does it tell? It tells us that we need to probably look into mental health slightly differently for males and females. We need to look into mental health of children slightly differently. All this mental health is costing as Guruji said about $220 billion to Australian economy in the direct and indirect cost. When we talk about mental health and when it costs that much to Australian economy the question comes what is actually mental health. So when I was looking around this I couldn't come up with a clear understanding what is mental health even if as a medical professional when I was thinking about mental health I was thinking oh mental health is depression anxiety all these mental disorders this is mental health but when you dig a little bit deeper and I was looking into the definition of mental health it actually defines that mental health is a person's ability to cope with their life's daily stressors to recognize their own abilities, learn well, perform well and contribute to the community. And that's what exactly yoga tells us about. Yoga tells us about recognizing our own potential, perform well and contribute to the community. That's what our guru g was telling this morning that Bhagat Gita tells us the same thing. recognize and contribute. So when we try to do that our health especially mental health depends on three factors. Our body's internal environment, our external environment and interaction between two environments. Anything which is inside the boundary of this body is our internal environment. Anything which is outside of this body's boundary is our external environment and the interaction between two. All Patanjali yoga sutras talk about how we improve our internal environment and how we interact with the external environment. As Guruji said this morning all the yama nyama asan pranayan pratyahar dhana dhan samadhi all of this is about the internal environment and interaction with the external. If we try to include yama and nyama in our daily life, this is what we are going to help to improve the community health as well. So mental health is not just the lack of or absence of mental illness. It's about the way we talk, the way we learn, the way we live our life. This is all about mental health. So mental health is everyone's business. We can't say that because I don't have mental illness, mental health is not for me. No, mental health is everyone's business. And this is why I humbly request you all to include yama, nyama, asa, pam, pratyahara, karna, dhan, samadi in everyone's life. This is about internal environment. Now what is happening with the external environment? There are several factors which can influence our external environment and interaction with the internal environment. But the two most important ones as NGI said what we eat. Ahara. Ahara is very very important as to what can influence from external environment. And the other one is sleep. Sleep is also very important because it helps us to recover and regenerate our brain cells to lead a normal and healthy life. So as everyone said here today, I humbly request you all to include yoga in your daily day-to-day life. Thank you. Okay, I'll sit down and talk. It makes it much easier for me. So uh some of you know me. Uh my name is Manish. Some of my friends are here today as well. So first of all I will say a big thanks to all of you who managed to come on a Sunday morning cold morning did a yoga session with Guruji and uh councelor general has gone so thanks to him as well to take some time out but we have all gathered under the banner of BKY today and conducted our international day of yoga celebrated it and after listening to uh my colleague and my brother Dr. Jatindra. We all know the impact of mental health on our society. We have seen kids performing great yoga arsenals. So there is a reason why all this is essential. We have come across the thoughts the talks from Dr. Narendra kids. We all know how impactful yoga is in our daily life. But I want to take you to a different section of today's discussion and I would ask you to focus on the second banner here which is vasu deva kria yoga mand now that is something new for our organization the organization which has served the society for 20 years on that's a big time two decades of serving the community guruji had a vision he wanted to create something called a sadha bumi which he has emphasized on and that is what BKYM stands for. Vasu deva kria yoga mandr harm prevention center as the name suggests it is going to be a comprehensive center which will incorporate mental physical spiritual well-being and that from my point of view is the best way to define a good Down.