Namaskarum and a very very warm welcome to all you dear yogis. Today on the 21st of June 2025, we have all gathered here on the international yoga day from various parts of the world. Thank you for joining me here today. Thank you for trusting in me and thank you for prioritizing your health over anything else. Okay. So, uh today as it's international yoga day, do you know the theme of international yoga day? Yoga for one earth and one health. How is earth related to health and yoga. If you are wondering about that your personal health is deeply related to the health of the planet, the entire planet. If you can take care of your own health and your own self, then only you are healthy and then you will be able to take care of the rest of the people around you and then the community and then the planet. So that is the theme of today of this year's international yoga day. And uh this is our 11th international yoga day. It was initiated in 2024 by our prime minister Narendra Modi. And uh this this year we're celebrating our 11th international yoga day and it is celebrated throughout the world and uh we are so happy that you know our Indian our our past Indian culture is being promoted throughout the world. And if you're wondering um Dr. Tjaswini like you are a doctor and you're an alopathic doctor and why do you promote yoga so much? Well, let me tell you my journey into yoga and into medicine. Both of them started hand inhand and it's been 15 years that I have been into yoga and of course medicine as well. So being a doctor it had taught me how to treat people but being into yoga it had helped me how to prevent diseases. So I believe a true healer is not someone who just treats diseases but also you know addresses health in a holistic manner and also nourishes health in the true sense. And now you might even ask me there are so many things why only yoga there is there are you know you can go to gym you can go to athletics you can go to pilateses you can go to all of these I'm not against any of these uh of course I also do a lot of these but then yoga personally had helped me in a lot of layered manner it had helped me physically mentally emotionally psychologically and spiritually as well which again comes down to the definition of wh nothing Health is not merely absence of disease but physical, mental, emotional and psychological well-being. Well, if I'm talking too much if you think that okay fine I'm not going to talk too much and I am going to make you all do uh yoga today. So, let me tell you all the steps that we are going to follow. So, we will be starting with a small u meditation pranayyama and omaram. Um after our omaram and a short breathing exercise we will be moving on to doing our sukchma vayama. Sukchma vyama is a full body exercise that we will be doing and it can be done by anybody and there is no contra indication to that and followed by sukma vyama we will be doing our asinas and today since in since it is international yoga day we will be following the protocol asas given by the government of India and followed by that a few breathing exercises which is pranayyama and dhana for a few minutes. Okay. Uh I request you all to sit down in a comfortable posture. I hope you all are dressed comfortably to be doing yoga today. Um please if you have a mat it's fine. And if you don't have a mat also it's fine. Okay. So sit down comfortably and uh uh of course please sit down with an open mind and free from all the judgments. uh just enjoy this process for the next 1 hour and we will come back to speaking to each other by the end of the session again. Okay. So let's begin today's session. Sit down in a comfortable posture. We'll turn on some music also for you. You can sit down in padmasana or vajarasana or even on a chair. Whichever posture is comfortable for you all. Please sit down in a comfortable posture and in a relaxed manner. [Music] After you sit down in a relaxed manner, we will first be starting with our omaram. So I request you to close your eyes, take a deep breathe in and chant Omaram along with me for three times. Okay? Close your eyes. Take a deep brea in. Chant don't [Music] Oh. [Music] Oh. Oh, [Music] keep your eyes closed. I will be chanting a shlokum. You can chant after me. [Music] Malam sharam. [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Branto me. Now for eight times take deep breathe in and breathe out from both your nostrils. Remember when you breathe in your tummy has to go out and when you breathe out it has to come in. Okay. Take deep breathe in and breathe out for eight times. [Music] Once you have completed eight times, I request you to close your left nostril and take deep breathe in and breathe out from your right nostril alone. The surya again eight times. [Music] [Music] If you have completed eight on the right, now close your right nostril, open your left nostril. And then again take a deep breathe in and breathe out from the left nostril alone again on a count of eight. Okay, let's begin. If you have finished eight, Relax your hands. Take normal deep breathe in and breathe out for four times. Now slowly rub both your palms together. Put the warmth to your eyes. Gently open your eyes with a gentle smile. This process of a short pranayyama omaram was done so that you relax first. You you come down from all the stress you have and start to focus and on what we are teaching today. Okay. We're again going to do pranayyamas at the end of the session as well. Right now we're going to begin with our sukchma vyama which is a full body warm-up and this can be done by all ages from the age of four to the age of 90 and 100 also and uh it has it it has no contraindications and it can be done very peacefully and happily. So I will be beginning with a small exercise while we are sitting down as itself and then after standing we'll be doing a full body warm up. Okay. So wherever you're stretch uh sitting I request you to stretch your feet forward. After you stretch your feet forward, now simply just move your fingers in and out. In and out on a count of eight. One. You can even club breathing with this. When your fingers are going down, you can breathe in and going coming back. You can breathe out. If you're not comfortable with breathing, just normally move your fingers for eight times. 1 2 3 4 5 Only your fingers, not your ankles. Six 7 and 8. Now along with your ankles when you move your ankle forward you have to breathe in and when it comes back you breathe out. Let's do it very slowly on a count of eight. Okay. Breathe in and move your ankles forward. Breathe out and move your ankles inside again on a count of eight. One and come back. Two and come back. Three back. I hope you're breathing as well. Four back. Five back. Six back. 7 back 8 and back. This is all part of sushma and it all has a name. For example, padanguli naman, gulf naman. So there are names for each of these things and these have been designed to relieve the pain inside your feet if if ever you have some pains and it also helps you to warm up your feet and when you stretch all of these you're even warming up your calf muscles and your thigh muscles as well. Okay. So now we are going to do a alternate movement again on a count of eight. Alternate feet movement. Front and back makes it one. Okay, let's start. 1. 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8. Now keep your feet together and let's just do a circular moment. Maximum stretch forward and maximum stretch back. Okay. 1 2 four times on clockwise. Four times anticlockwise. 3 and four. Let's do anticlockwise. 1 2 3 and four. You can take slight gap between your feet and then again do the same thing from outside to inside. You have to finish four cycles and then from inside to outside for four times. Okay, let's start one. It's going to improve the blood circulation in your feet and your legs. Two, three, and four. Let's do opposite outside to inside. 1 2 3 and four. And just simply move your feet in and out. Relax your feet. Move it in and out. Let the blood flow through your calf muscles, your ankles, and your feet and fingers. Now, simply place your feet together. We will be doing an alternate movement with the knees up and down. Okay? So, again, let's just start and do it as fast as you can. It's not going to harm you. Alternate moment. Alternate feet movement. Keep on doing. Keep on doing till it pains. This is a beautiful exercise for your pains and to improve the circulation in your feet. People who have all sorts of leg pain and who are unable to walk, they also can do this and slowly improve themselves. Now with both your feet together movement, move your feet up and down as fast as you can. Keep on doing it. It's going to smooth your abdominal muscles also a little. Okay. And then relax. Relax few seconds. Stretch your feet back. I mean stretch your feet and just put your head back. Take deep breathe in and breathe out for four times. And now let's stand up. [Music] Okay, stand up straight. Don't put your feet together. Just take slight gap between your feet. You can place your arms on the hips and then first look straight. We'll be starting from our eyes, then our neck, then our shoulders, arms and palms, then the sides and the thighs and knees. Feet we have already done now. So we'll be ending with the knees here. Okay. So hands on your hips. Do not close your eyes. You might feel guil if you're new to this. Keep your eyes open. Keep your body straight. Look straight. Hands on your hips and feet apart. And let's start. We're starting with ice. right and left for a count of eight. Okay, let's start. One 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8. [Music] Come back to the center. Now up and down. Take your eyes up and down. Okay. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8. and close your eyes. 2 seconds and open. We're going to do full cycle with the eyes. Four on the clockwise, four on the anticlockwise. All of this is going to improve the blood circulation near your eyes. And if you do it on a daily basis if children who have sight can also control it from moving ahead for from increasing of the sight. Okay. Now clockwise and anticlockwise. Let's start. 1 2 3 and four. Opposite. 1 2 3 and four. Close your eyes and open. We're going to do our neck exercises. Most of us all through the day are sitting in front of our phones or laptops uh or even bending down and working. So working on our neck and our shoulders and the back is very very important for all of us including kids who are studying in the schools as well. Okay. So as we begin our next exercise I want to tell you we are not going to do the front kind of a moment. We're going to do only the back because you're always bending your head always friend. So let's do the back movement alone. Today we're starting with the right and left. Okay, move your head right and left and on a count of eight along with me. 1 2 3 [Music] 4 5 [Music] 6 7 and 8 and center. Now back and center. We're not going down. We're just going back and center again for eight. Okay, let's begin. One center. Two center. Three center. Four center. Five. Center. Six. And come back. Two more times. Seven. And back. One last time. Eight. And back. Now one of the last moments with the neck we are going to do a semicircle. So you'll touch your shoulder on one side. Take your head back and then come to the other side and then do the opposite as well. So we're going to do this right and left as one set. So we'll be doing four times. Okay. So I am beginning from my right side. Let's start. One. Take a circle and go to the left. And then take a circle and come back again. Two. One and two. Now start from your left. Three. One and two. Last time. Four. Left. back, right, back, left, and come back to the center. That finishes your neck. Drop your shoulders down. We're moving to our shoulders. Coming to the shoulders also. We're going to do only the back moment, not the front ones because so that we don't hunch too much. Okay, we'll be hunching throughout the day. So anyways, so let's do the opposite of that. So coming to your shoulders, a simple rotation with your shoulders. Take it back and rotate it on a count of eight again. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8. We hear so many complaints about shoulder drops and then shoulder frozen shoulders and all. All of these doing on a daily basis is definitely going to help you. Okay. Now we're going to take both our hands together up and take a circle. But then again remember when you go up these hands have to go behind the ears and take it as back as you can and then bring it forward. We're going to do only the back movements again eight times. Okay, take your hands up and go back maximum and come forward. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8. I'm sure you're already feeling the slight pain on your shoulders if you have actually taken your hands back properly. Okay. So now we are going to do bird moments. Bird flapping kind of a moments. So firstly we'll go take our hands from here to up. Okay. Again taking your hands behind your ears from down with your open hands touch both the backs of your hand and behind your ears again for eight times. Let's start. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8. So from the shoulders we are actually addressing our arms as well and the chest as well here. Okay. Now take your hands forward and then we'll be moving a alternate moment with the hands. Let's start. One and two. Okay. For a count of eight. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8 and relax. Okay. Now I am going to bring slight pain in your shoulders and arms. Okay. So take your hands on the sides. Now take it slightly up and slightly back. From here you will do a slight bird flap. Okay. Front and back for eight times. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8. Now up and down flapping like this. Let's start. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 circular motion. I hope you're keeping your hands up and slightly back. Circular motion. 1 2 3 4 5. Opposite. 1 2 3 4 5 and relax. Move your hands. If it's paining, just move. Move your hands. We're going to address our fingers and wrists. Now, take your hands in front of you. Keep your palms open. Alternatively, up and down. Up and down. Eight times. 1. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8. Relax your hands. The last is is for our wrist and our fingers here. Okay. So it's going to be slightly tough but you can do it. Okay. Take your hands in front of you. Put your fingers inside and then your other fingers on top of your thumb. And then you have to start rotating your hands. Do a normal rotation. 1 2 3 4 opposite. 5 6 7 8 Now make a tight fist as if you're angry on somebody. Make a tight fist. Press your fingers and relax your hands. We're going to address our sides now. Take your hand, one hand up, right hand up. Take a deep breathe in and bend. Bend, bend, bend, bend, bend as much as you can and come up. Relax your hand. Other side. Take a deep breath in and bend and come back. Okay. Now take your hands in front of you and then go back and come forward but slightly hands on the top. We're almost at the end of our sukma vayama. We'll be starting our protocol right now but just let's finish it. Okay. Take your hands back and come forward. Back and forward. Back. Forward. Back. Forward. Back. Forward. Back and forward. And relax. Hip rotations. Rotate your hip. One. 2. 3. 4 and opposite. 1 2 3 4. Now slight march pass as if you're back to school. Just do a march pass. This is for your thighs. Let's start. One 2 3 4 5 6 7 8. Now the same thing you can just do the donkey kicks. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8. Okay, let's go to our knees right now. Our knees you just have to move front and back. front and back for eight times. Again, place your hands on your knees and bend forward and start. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8. This is our last one. a clockwise rotation four times and clock or anticlockwise for four times. Okay. Again, hands on your knees and start. 1 2 3 4 opposite. 5 6 7 8. That's it. Because we have already done our ankles while we were sitting down. We're not going to do our ankles right now. So this finishes your sukma viama from your eyes to your toes. Okay. So are you all ready to begin the protocol asas? If you want to have a slight sip of water, you all can have a small sip of water. Take a break for a few seconds. Just deep breathe in and breathe out three times. Just breathe in and breathe out. Whoever wants to have water can have it. [Music] Okay. So I'll just explain the protocol right now. So we are going to do few standing asinas, few sitting asas and some in prone and some in supine position. So these are the four positions that we have to do. Since we are already standing, now we'll be starting with our standing asas. The first one being tasa. This asa stretches your entire body. It's good for children who want to grow their height. It's good for adults who want to protect their heart as well. And it's good for somebody who wants to correct their spine as well. It has a lot of benefits. It's very easy but a beautiful asa. Okay. So, interlock your hands. Take a deep breath in and stretch both your feet up and hold as long as you can. Your feet has to be stretched up. and breathe out and relax. Once again, take a deep breathe in. Stretch your feet up and relax. One last time. Take a deep breathe in and breathe out. and relax. Okay, as I mentioned, it's good for children who want to grow their height. It's good for spinal alignment as well. And um it's good in a lot of ways, especially for heart also. Okay, for breathing also, it's good. Next, we will be doing a very important asa called vikasana. This is especially important for children who want to improve their concentration, who want to improve their focus in their studies. Okay. Place your hands on besides your thighs. Lift one of your feet. You have to stand like a tree and place it on the thigh. And then you take your hands on the sides and take your hands behind your ears. Put a namaskarum and look straight and hold for eight. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 slowly release your hands and then your feet. So any asa that we do on one side, we always balance it on the other side as well. Okay. So I request you if you are done with your right leg, do it with your left leg as well right now. Okay? Take your leg up. Place it on your thigh. Take your hands from the sides. Hands behind the ears. Look straight. Do not close your eyes. and hold for eight counts. One 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 and relax. If you were not able to do it, it's okay. If it's your first time, it's okay. You can take the wall support as well and do it. Now the next asas are our back bending and our friend bending. We're starting with our friend bending currently. It's called the pashimutanasana. Okay. So here we're actually trying to go and touch our feet. If you're not used to touching your feet, you can do it. How muchever you can do it. Do it as much. That's fine. Okay? Not don't do not force yourself. Do it as much as you can. And if you have some spinal issues, disc prolapse and all, please avoid doing this. Hands on your sides. Stretch your hands up. Take a deep breath in. Stretch forward. Stretch. Stretch maximum. Do not hunch like this. You have to stretch maximum. Stretch. Stretch. Stretch. And touch the floor. If you're somebody who's not able to touch the floor, you can touch your legs legs only. If somebody is able to touch the floor but not the feet completely, you can just do slight movement here. But if you're already an advanced practitioner and you're able to do it, just take your hands back, breathe in and head down. Slowly come up. Release your hands and relax. Next up is our ara chakra asana. A very very important asa for everybody especially homemakers, software professionals, students, all of yall who hunch forward. This is a good asa for you to bend back. We're going to make it very easy for you. Place your hands back on your hip. Take a deep breathe in and bend back and hold [Music] and release. [Music] It's always preferred that when you do a back bending, always open your eyes and do it. Okay? Because if you're a beginner, you might feel giddy when you're doing that. So this was a very good asa for your spinal alignment and for your shoulder opening, for your chest and even your abdominal organs are getting stretched, your thighs were getting stretched. There are advanced versions of doing it, but this class is for everybody to do it. Okay? So the last standing asa is your triona. Three corna is putting your body in three directions. Place your legs apart. You can take one leg on the side. You can twist one leg. Take your hands on the sides. Take a deep brea in. Slowly bend down and hold your feet wherever you can. and come back. Now we have to do the opposite as well. So turn the other feet again. Take a deep breath in. Bend down. Hold your feet. Look up on the other hand. and come back. Make your legs straight, hands down, feet together, and happily sit down. Now [Music] you can just stretch your feet forward. Relax. Few seconds. Deep breathe in and breathe out. This is called dandas. The sitting position is called dandasana. And if you're relaxing back, it's called nishwan pavasana. Relax. And now let's do something fun. You have to take one leg inside folded and the other leg inside also folded and do the butterfly the badrasa. Okay. So since we are doing asasam sukam asam asam is a position where you're sitting comfortably but if you are a beginner you can start with a flapping moments. Flap 25 times. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 22 20 25. If you're able to sit down, place your hands on the thighs, breathe in and breathe out and sit comfortably. If you're not able to put your legs so down, it's okay. If you're able to hold like this, it's okay. You'll learn it slowly. Okay, this is just sit as much as you can. [Music] Next up, we will be sitting in vajrasa. It's a beautiful asa for your spine, for your thighs and a very good asa for digestion as well. Early in the morning when you wake up and if you sit in this position, it improves your digestion and helps you clear your bowels very easily. Okay. So, let's sit in vajrasana. Hands on your thighs. Spine straight and hold. [Music] From vajrasa we'll be doing a back bending and a front bending. Our back bending asa here is rtrasana and then we will counterbalance it with a friend bending called shashankasana. Whenever we do a back bending we always make sure that we do a friend bending so that our spine is balanced. Okay. Sit on your knees. Once you sit on your knees, for beginners who are just starting, you can place your hands on your hips, take a deep breathe in and slowly bend back [Music] and relax. If you're feeling giddy, move your hands. Take deep breathe in and breathe out. You'll be fine. It's okay. And for people who can do it, there's a slight advanced version to it. Take your hands in front of you. Take one hand back to touch your ankles. The other hand back as well. And now you will be pushing your hips forward and bend back. Normal breathe in and breathe out. Eyes open and relax. [Music] Now let's just bend forward to relax our spine. You can take your hands forward, head down. This is called the shashangasana and come up. So this was a beautiful back bending and a friend bending asa. It's good for your spine. It's good for your neck and shoulders. It's good for your thighs and uh abdominal organs as well. And um and when you do the front and back you're even like it's good for people with diabetes as well. So it's good for endocrine disorders as well. So it has a lot of benefits. Each asa has multiple benefits. Okay. So the last sitting asa we have is called the vakrasa the spinal twisting asa which is again a beautiful asa for the endocrine glands especially the pancreas and the people who have diabetes. Stretch your feet forward both your feet forward. Take one leg inside. Now, if this is your right leg, the left hand has to go and overlap the right leg. Hold it wherever you can. If you're getting it till here, it's okay. Hold it wherever you can. Stretch your other hand back and look back. Normal. Breathe in and breathe out. Can you do the opposite as well? Get the opposite leg inside. If it's your left leg, then the right hand. The right hand has to overlap over the left leg. and this hand back. You look back and hold and relax. For children who are able to sit like me, you can sit with your feet up outside. For adults, you can even avoid this one. This is called the mandukasana. The last sitting posture. One hand back. Touch your opposite shoulder. The other hand back touch your opposite shoulders. Look straight. Take deep. Breathe in and breathe out. [Music] and release. Now we are going to lie on our abdomen the prone postures. Okay. So when we sat down we relaxed in dandasana. Similarly when we are sleeping we're again going to relax for a while in matarasana. [Music] Okay. Lie down on your abdomen. Feet apart, feet on the floor. Take your head to one side and just relax for a few seconds in macakarasan. [Music] From here we'll be doing another beautiful spinal alignment asa and a back stretch. It's called the bhjangasana. Okay. I'm going to make you do this in a stepwise manner as if I make it directly it might be little difficult. Stretch your hands forward. One step back and stretch your neck back and hold. Two. One more step back. Neck back and hold. Three. Back. Step four. Slightly more back and hold. The last one is your step five. Place your hands parallel to your chest. Take deep breathe in and lift your body up and neck back. Feet together. Bend back. and relax. Can relax in macakarasana. Now place your hands under your thighs. [Music] Breathe in. Head down. Chin down. And lift one leg up. And relax. If you have any disc prolapse, spinal problems, please don't do it. Again, breathe in and do the opposite leg up and relax. Just turn back. Lie down on your back again. Relax. Few seconds. [Music] We're doing the bridge pose. If you can hold your feet. If you can't, place your hands on the floor. You have to take a deep breathe in and lift your hip up. Okay? And hold for eight counts. Breathe in. Lift and hold. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8. Relax. [Music] Relax your feet forward. For those of you who are looking forward to reduce your belly, this is an asana for you, the utanasana where you have to keep both your feet together. Take a deep breathe in, lift your legs and hold it in a certain angle. And now take it up and place it in 90° in arda. [Music] And now fold your feet, place it on your tummy and lift your head up to pavana muktasana. [Music] Pavana mta an asa which helps you release your gases. A very good asa for your abdominal organs. By now I'm sure you all must be tired. So let's just lie down in shavasana and relax for some time. Feet apart. Let the feet fall on the sides. Palms facing the sky. Head straight. Take deep breathe in and breathe out. [Music] Relax yourself completely from your feet to your head. Relax your legs. Relax your calf muscles and your thigh muscles. Relax your abdominal organs and your back. Relax your arms and palms your shoulder, your neck muscles [Music] and your facial muscles. [Music] [Music] Take deep breathe in and breathe out. Keep your focus on your breath. [Music] [Music] Slowly bring both your feet together. [Music] Turn your body towards the left side. Take support from the floor and sit down in a comfortable posture. We're going to do pranayyamna. We'll start with doing a deep breathe in and breathe out for eight times. Followed by that I will teach you how to do anoloma voma and brahari pranayyama. First sit down in a comfortable posture. Close your eyes. Take deep breathe in and breathe out for eight times. [Music] Breathe in with your tummy out. Breathe out with your tummy in. [Music] [Music] Now with your right hand fold your index finger and the middle finger and then turn it towards your face. We're going to do andoma voma. So the ring finger will be on the left nostril. You'll be taking a deep breathe in from the right and then hold in between and then breathe out from the left. Again breathe in from the left, hold in between and breathe out from the right like this. Breathe in, breathe out, breathe in, breathe out for five cycles. Okay, let's start. Slow breathe in again with your tummy out. Okay. [Music] Hold and breathe out. Breathe in. Hold and breathe out. Breathe in. [Music] Hold. [Music] Breathe out. Breathe in. Hold. And breathe out. Again breathe in, hold and breathe out. [Music] Breathe in. Hold. Breathe out. [Music] One last time. Breathe in. Hold. Breathe out. [Music] Breathe in. Hold. Breathe out. Relax your hands. Take normal breathe in and breathe out. [Music] The last pranayyama for today. Close your ears. Take your hands onto your eyes. You'll take a deep breathe in. And just like how we did, we'll be doing it's called the brahari. It's like a B. Okay. Close your eyes and ears. Take deep breathe in. [Music] [Music] [Music] [Laughter] Relax your hands. Take deep breathe in and breathe out. [Music] Gently rub your palms. Put the warmth to your eyes. Look into your palms and open your eyes with a gentle smile. I hope you had a good session. I hope it was relaxing for all of you all. So this was the protocol for International Yoga Day that we had followed. I am going to keep this video on my YouTube and you can do it whenever you want to do it. We had a beautiful batch of Anandam G with us here previously a 10day session. So during that session we had a lot of people joining us from throughout the world and they really enjoyed the session and they have been asking me for when is the next session coming up. So July 6th to 12th is the next session. It's going to be a oneweek session with yoga and a lot of life lessons as well. We're going to talk about the science of life, the bliss of life and that will be done by professor Shinas Sharma. Okay. So in detail I can explain you how yoga and pranayyama is affecting each system of your body and how it's going to benefit you. And I hope you all please include yoga as part of your daily routine and uh make it as part of your daily lifestyle uh so that you can prevent lifestyle disorders in the future. I recommend that this has to be done from a child who is 4 year old to as old as 100 year old. Anybody can do yoga. There is no age limit to it. Thank you so much for joining me today on International Yoga Day. I I hope you really had a wonderful session. If you want to learn from me directly, uh we are going to start our batches soon and uh as you can see my logo, it's called the Blisswa. Uh it's the organization for my yoga wing and I'm going to talk about in detail about all the activities that we are going to present as part of uh Tjaswini Manogna Academy for Excellence. I'll let you know about it on my social media soon. Thank you for joining me. Have a wonderful day and make yoga as part of your life every single day. Thank you.